Recent AI advances are changing how vulnerabilities are discovered and exploited.
Read about our approach
AI-powered cybersecurity
Turbocharge security with AI in the flow of work
Embrace the game-changing technology of generative and autonomous AI for cybersecurity to transform the way you work—and how you protect your organization.
Watch video
Learn more
Overview
Enhance your security and IT with built-in AI
Activate agentic defense across the security operations center
Accelerate prevention, detection, and response with agents powered by Microsoft’s unified security platform. Microsoft Sentinel fuels agentic defense, Microsoft Defender operationalizes it, and Microsoft Security Copilot brings it to life, turning signals into action with speed and precision.
Empower IT and identity teams with Security Copilot
Automate with agents for vulnerability remediation, Conditional Access optimization, and access review. Get embedded insights and guidance for IT troubleshooting and risky user analysis, accelerating response, reducing risk, and improving compliance.
Rest assured with AI you can trust
Protect with confidence and safely use AI for diverse business functions and roles, knowing that your sensitive data is protected by industry-leading security and compliance controls.
PRODUCTS AND SOLUTIONS
Explore security tools powered by AI
Microsoft Security Copilot
Protect at the speed and scale of AI with a generative AI-powered assistant for daily operations in security and IT.
Learn more
Copilot in Microsoft Defender
Detect and disrupt cross-domain cyberattacks with unified visibility and integrated AI assistance.
Learn more
Copilot in Microsoft Sentinel
Collect security data and correlate alerts from virtually any source with intelligent security analytics.
Learn more
Copilot in Microsoft Intune
Simplify data and device protection with cost-effective endpoint management.
Learn more
Copilot in Microsoft Entra
Protect identity and secure access to any resource.
Learn more
Copilot in Microsoft Purview
Secure and govern your data wherever it lives.
Learn more
Copilot in Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Strengthen multicloud and hybrid environments in development and in runtime.
Learn more
ANNOUCEMENT
AI agents built into your workflow
Use Security Copilot agents across Microsoft Defender, Entra, Intune, and Purview– at no added cost with Microsoft 365 E5.
Learn more
Roles
Assistance across the board
Safeguard your entire organization with generative and agentic AI natively embedded in the tools you already use.
CISO
Manage security
Security analyst
Respond faster
IT admin
Reduce IT complexity
Data security admin
Uncover data risk
Identity admin
Simplify access
Previous
Next
Assess your security program.
Microsoft Security Copilot
Reduce mean time to resolve using AI insights.
Unified security operations
Troubleshoot faster and prevent misconfigurations.
Copilot in Intune
Accelerate investigations and enhance risk analysis.
Copilot in Microsoft Purview
Drive identity security and enhance operations with AI.
Copilot in Microsoft Entra
Back to tabs
Use generative AI for cybersecurity
See how Security Copilot works with other Microsoft tools to help strengthen your security posture.
Read the datasheet
Integrated generative AI
Generative AI for cybersecurity integrates with products across the Microsoft Security suite.
Security Copilot works with:
Microsoft Purview for data security, compliance, and privacy.
Microsoft Sentinel and Microsoft Defender for threat protection and cloud security.
Microsoft Entra and Microsoft Intune for identity and endpoint management.
Customer stories
What customers are saying
Previous Slide
Next Slide
“The Phishing Triage Agent is a game changer. It’s saving us nearly 200 hours monthly by autonomously handling and closing thousands of false positive alerts.”
Krista Arndt, Associate Chief Information Security Officer, St. Luke’s University Health Network
Read the story
“We analyze results about 60% to 70% faster with Security Copilot. It plays a central role in our ability to speed up threat analyses and activities, fundamentally reducing the risks for our IT landscape worldwide.”
Norbert Vetter, CISO, TÜV SÜD
Read the story
“The speed at which we’re able to use [Security Copilot] to pull threat information across time zones and extensive geographies is a huge advantage.”
Adam Keown, Chief Information Security Officer, Eastman
Read the story
Security Copilot helped DOW speed up investigations with data correlation and incident enrichment, reducing alert-to-action time dramatically.
Read the story
Elanco enhances its security posture and reduces response times by approximately 50% using Security Copilot and Defender Experts for XDR
Read the story
“Microsoft [Security Copilot] will boost our automation capabilities and help our analysts ... learn how to quickly write more KQL—such as threat hunting with more advanced hunting queries—and more workbooks.”
Emily Longman, SOC Manager, OSU
Read the story
Back to Customer Stories section
RESOURCES
Explore AI-powered security
Previous Slide
Next Slide
Adoption Hub
Security Copilot Adoption Hub
Access Security Copilot resources—such as use cases, videos, and trainings—in the Security Copilot Adoption Hub.
Explore now
Responsible AI
Our approach to responsible AI
The data you share with Security Copilot is protected by industry-leading compliance and security controls and never shared with OpenAI.
Learn about responsible AI
Infographic
How Copilot works
See how Security Copilot assists in security and IT operations.
Read the infographic
Back to Additional Resources section
Microsoft Security Copilot agents
MORE SOLUTIONS
Discover more from Microsoft Security
Threat protection
Unified security operations
Outpace cyberthreats with one powerful security operations platform.
Learn more
Data security
Secure and govern data
Protect and govern your data estate.
Learn more
Get started
Protect everything
Make your future more secure. Explore your security options today.
Contact Sales
Follow Microsoft Security