Cloud security
Protect your cloud and AI apps from code to runtime
Unify security across your cloud and hybrid environments with an integrated cloud-native application protection platform (CNAPP).
Read the white paper
Overview
End-to-end hybrid and multicloud security
Unify security across the full cloud app lifecycle
Help prevent cyberattacks with built-in, natively integrated security controls across the entire cloud and AI application lifecycle—including coverage for agents.
Prioritize the risks that matter most
Proactively minimize cloud security risks with unified posture management and threat insights across your entire digital estate.
Respond to threats faster
Detect and respond to cloud and AI threats in near real-time with GenAI-powered fixes in the unified Microsoft Defender portal.
Market statistics
The Total Economic Impact™ Of Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Business value enabled by Defender for Cloud
Get the study
50%
reduction in false positives
1
30%
decrease in time to remediate threats
1
$5.6M
in SecOps productivity savings over three years
1
Products
Comprehensive cloud security for multicloud and hybrid environments
Microsoft Defender for Cloud
Protect multicloud and hybrid environments with end-to-end security across the full application lifecycle.
Learn more
Microsoft Security Exposure Management
Reduce risk and optimize your security posture with comprehensive visibility into your attack surface and exposure to cyberthreats.
Learn more
GitHub Advanced Security
Empower developers and security teams to work together to accelerate the delivery of secure software.
Learn more
Microsoft Defender External Attack Surface Management
See your business the way a cyberattacker does, with visibility across your resources and multicloud environment.
Learn more
Microsoft Defender XDR
Automatically disrupt cyberattacks and accelerate response with extended detection and response (XDR).
Learn more
Microsoft Security Copilot
Protect your organization at the speed and scale of AI with a generative AI-powered assistant for daily operations in security and IT.
Learn more
Secure the entire cloud application lifecycle
Explore how to address growing cloud-based threats with an integrated CNAPP.
Learn more
Back to carousel navigation controls
Learn how to protect your cloud, AI apps, and agents
Stay ahead of evolving cloud and AI threats with insights, strategies, and solutions to protect your cloud and AI ecosystem.
Access resources
Stay ahead of emerging cloud and AI threats
Help secure your cloud, AI apps, and agents with GenAI-powered CNAPP, delivering unified protection and threat intelligence from Microsoft.
Scenarios
One solution for all your clouds
Reduce complexity and gain visibility with a unified CNAPP built to work across your hybrid and multicloud environments.
Ship secure code
Embed security into development
Build secure infrastructure
Reduce misconfigurations
Boost security posture
Stay two steps ahead
Protect apps and infrastructure
Get multilayered protection
Mitigate cyberthreats
Accelerate investigations
Previous
Next
Secure your software supply chain and prevent vulnerabilities and secrets in code.
Prevent cloud misconfigurations from reaching your production environment with secure infrastructure-as-code templates and container images.
Prevent future cyberattacks using attack path analysis across cloud and AI workloads, APIs, and datastores in multicloud environments.
Help prevent, detect, and respond to cyberthreats across servers, containers, service layers, databases, APIs, identities, and apps—whether on-premises or in the cloud.
Quickly detect and respond to cloud threats in a unified, end-to-end SecOps experience.
Back to tabs
RECOGNITION AND RESEARCH
Recognition and research by top industry research firms
Learn why Microsoft has been named an overall leader in KuppingerCole Leadership Compass for Generative AI Defense.
2
Read the report
Learn why Microsoft was named a Leader in the IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Cloud-Native Application Protection Platform 2025 Vendor Assessment.
3
Read the assessment
Read The Total Economic Impact™ Of Microsoft Defender for Cloud, a commissioned study by Forrester Consulting, January 2025.
1
Read the study
Microsoft is recognized by Frost & Sullivan with the 2024 Global Market Leadership Award in Cloud Workload Protection Platforms.
4
Read the report
Customer stories
What customers say about Microsoft cloud security
Previous Slide
Next Slide
“We’ve successfully resisted multiple jailbreak attempts. Defender for Cloud shows us how to design our processes with optimal security and monitor where jailbreak attempts may have originated.”
Marwan Kodeih, Chief Product Officer, Mia Labs, Inc
Read the story
“As KPMG looks into the future, Microsoft will help us revolutionize adoption of AI responsibly.”
Kenneth Zhen, Senior Associate, Digital Security Group, KPMG
Watch the video
“From a security standpoint, this is fundamental. I can’t protect what I don’t know. The ability to identify risks across our entire environment has been a gamechanger.”
Renata Vincoletto, Chief Information Security Officer, Civica
Read the story
“Microsoft Defender for Cloud emerged as our natural choice for the first line of defense against AI-related threats. It meticulously evaluates the security of our Azure OpenAI deployments, monitors usage patterns, and promptly alerts us to potential threats. These capabilities empower our Security Operations Center (SOC) teams to make more informed decisions based on AI detections, ensuring that our AI-driven contract management remains secure, reliable, and ahead of emerging threats.”
Subodh Patil, Principal Cyber Security Architect, Icertis
Read the blog
“Without our Microsoft Security tools, we wouldn’t be able to protect as many employees as we do with our small cybersecurity team. It’s an umbrella that covers every aspect of security, so we have a single source of truth.”
Alexander Maute, Director, IT Technology, ElringKlinger
Read the story
“The three things that keep me up at night are phishing, ransomware, and cloud misconfigurations … We have Defender for Cloud to point out configuration weaknesses and suggest changes.”
Neil Natic, Chief Information Officer, Georgia Banking Company
Read the story
Back to Customer stories carousel
Resources
Stay up to date on cloud security
Resource library
Get expert insights on protecting your cloud and AI environment
Explore e-books, analyst research, and webcasts on securing your cloud infrastructure, AI workloads, and sensitive data while maintaining compliance.
Register now
More solutions
Discover more from Microsoft Security
Previous Slide
Next Slide
data security
Secure and govern data
Boost AI innovation and safeguard data with a solution that unifies data security and governance.
Learn more
Security for AI
Secure and govern AI
Confidently embrace AI with industry-leading cybersecurity solutions.
Learn more
Cloud workload protection
Protect multicloud workloads
Discover vulnerabilities, uncover cyberthreats, and accelerate investigations across workloads.
Learn more
Unified SecOps
AI-powered, unified SecOps
Unify your security operations (SecOps) across prevention, detection, and response.
Learn more
Back to carousel navigation controls
Get started
Protect your clouds
Get comprehensive security across the application lifecycle. Explore your options today.
Contact us
Start free trial
[1]
The Total Economic Impact™ Of Microsoft Defender for Cloud, a commissioned study conducted by Forrester Consulting, August 2024, updated January 2025.
To understand benefits, costs, and risks, Forrester interviewed five representatives with experience using Defender for Cloud. For the purposes of this study, Forrester aggregated the results from these customers into a single composite organization.
[2]
Kuppinger Cole, Generative AI Defense, Jonathan Care, December 2, 2025.
[3]
IDC MarketScape: Worldwide Cloud-Native Application Protection Platform 2025 Vendor Assessment, by Philip Bues and Frank Dickson, June 2025, IDC #US53549925.
[4]
Frost & Sullivan, 2024 Best Practices Award, 2024 Market Leader in the Global CWPP Industry.
Follow Microsoft Security