Cyber Threats and Response
CISA tracks and shares information about the latest cybersecurity threats to protect our nation against serious, ever-evolving cyber dangers.
Cyber Threats and Response
Malware, Phishing, and Ransomware
Shields Ready
Shields Up
Incident Response
Information Sharing
Securing Networks
Nation-State Threats
Sophisticated cyber actors and nation-states exploit vulnerabilities to steal information and money and work to develop capabilities to disrupt, destroy, or threaten the delivery of essential services. Defending against these attacks is essential to maintaining the nation’s security. Any cyber-attack, no matter how small, is a threat to our national security and must be identified, managed, and shut down. Protecting cyber space is everyone's responsibility - individuals and families, small and large businesses, SLTT and federal governments. By preventing attacks or mitigating the spread of an attack as quickly as possible, cyber threat actors lose their power.
CISA diligently tracks and shares information about the latest cybersecurity risks, attacks, and vulnerabilities, providing our nation with the tools and resources needed to defend against these threats. CISA shares up-to-date information about high-impact types of security activity affecting the community at large and in-depth analysis on new and evolving cyber threats. By staying current on threats and risk factors, CISA helps ensure our nation is protected against serious cyber dangers.
Alerts and Advisories
Alerts provide timely information about current security issues, vulnerabilities, and exploits.
All alerts & advisories
Featured Content
CISA's Known Exploited Vulnerabilities Catalog
CISA maintains the authoritative source of vulnerabilities that have been exploited in the wild. Organizations should use the KEV Catalog as an input to their vulnerability management prioritization framework.
How to Use the KEV Catalog
Learn how organizations should use the KEV Catalog in their vulnerability management prioritization framework.
StopRansomware
Designed to help public and private organizations defend against the rise in ransomware cases, StopRansomware is a whole-of-government approach that gives one central location for ransomware resources and alerts.
News
Discover the latest CISA news on Cyber Threat and Advisories.
View All News
AUGUST 25, 2026
| CYBERSECURITY ADVISORY | AA26-237A
A Tale of Two SOCs: Insights From Two Red Team Assessments
Same tactics, very different results. This advisory compares defensive outcomes from two red team assessments. Learn what drove detection and implement key actions to protect your organization from cyber threats.
MAY 21, 2026
| PRESS RELEASE
CISA Enhances Known Exploited Vulnerabilities Catalog to Include New Nomination Form
APRIL 23, 2026
| PRESS RELEASE
CISA, National Cyber Security Centre (NCSC) UK, and Global Partners Issue Advisory on Chinese Government-Linked Covert Cyber Networks
APRIL 23, 2026
| PRESS RELEASE
CISA Warns of FIRESTARTER Malware Targeting Cisco ASA including Firepower and Secure Firewall Products
View All News
Helpful Resources
Utilize these resources to gain strategies and guidance to protect your cyber space.
View All Cyber Threats and Advisories Resources
SEPTEMBER 22, 2026
| PUBLICATION
CVE Program: Establishing a Quality Era Framework
CISA outlines a Quality Era framework to strengthen CVE governance, participation, data infrastructure, and record content for more reliable vulnerability data.
View Files
OCTOBER 30, 2025
| PUBLICATION
Microsoft Exchange Server Security Best Practices
This guide aims to help network defenders harden on-premises Exchange servers against exploitation by malicious actors.
View Files
SEPTEMBER 10, 2025
| PUBLICATION
CISA Strategic Focus: CVE Quality for a Cyber Secure Future
This detailed roadmap identifies priorities that will elevate the program to meet the needs of the global cybersecurity community.
Download File (PDF, 332.58 KB)
SEPTEMBER 03, 2025
| PUBLICATION
A Shared Vision of Software Bill of Materials (SBOM) for Cybersecurity
SBOMs illuminate the software supply chain, helping ensure that known risks are addressed early and consistently.
Download File (PDF, 709.33 KB)
View All Cyber Threats and Advisories Resources
Services
Explore the cybersecurity services CISA offers to help mitigate risks, respond to incidents, and prevent threats.
View All Services
Protective Domain Name System (DNS) Resolver
INCREASE YOUR RESILIENCE
Contact: cybersharedservices@mail.cisa.dhs.gov
CISA's Protective Domain Name System (DNS) Resolver Service is the evolution and successor to the DNS egress protection capability currently being delivered through E3A DNS Sinkhole.
Foundational, Intermediate, Advanced
Assessment Evaluation and Standardization Program
The Assessment Evaluation and Standardization (AES) program is designed to enable organizations to have a trained individual that can perform several cybersecurity assessments and reviews in accordance with industry and/or federal information security standards.
Secure Cloud Business Applications (SCuBA) Project
Contact: scuba@cisa.dhs.gov
The SCuBA project helps agencies adopt necessary security and resilience practices when utilizing cloud services.
ScubaGear GitHub
ScubaGoggles GitHub
Malware Analysis
RESPOND TO AN INCIDENT
CISA's Malware Analysis service provides stakeholders a dynamic analysis of malicious code, including recommendations for malware removal and recovery activities.
Foundational, Intermediate, Advanced
View All Services
Contact CISA Central
CISA Central is the simplest way for critical infrastructure partners and stakeholders to engage with CISA. Please contact
Central@cisa.gov
.
CISA Central