Security standards
Available with Ubuntu Pro
Run Ubuntu in high-security environments
. Confidently deploy critical workloads while meeting rigorous cybersecurity standards like NIST 800-53, FedRAMP, and CMMC with Ubuntu Pro. As the publishers of Ubuntu, we’ve also developed automated hardening solutions enabling you to run Ubuntu in any environment.
Contact us
Learn more about Ubuntu Pro ›
FIPS 140-3 is now available for Ubuntu 22.04 LTS. Learn more
here
.
Supported standards
FIPS
FIPS 140-2 & 140-3 certified modules are available for Ubuntu.
DISA-STIG
Simplify your DISA-STIG hardening process by taking advantage of the automation available with Ubuntu Security Guide (USG).
CIS
Harden your systems to CIS benchmark standards using the automation available with USG.
EU Cyber Resilience Act
Learn how Canonical's security vulnerability management program enables you to comply with the requirements of the EU CRA.
NIST 800-53
Canonical provides hardening and compliance tools to help you meet NIST 800-53 requirements.
CMMC
Canonical provides hardening tools, FIPS 140 certified cryptographic modules, and timely vulnerability patching that enable CMMC compliance.
FedRAMP
Find security tools to help you achieve FedRAMP Authority To Operate.
PCI-DSS
Gain extra security and compliance guarantees needed to deploy applications in line with PCI-DSS requirements.
HIPAA
Canonical supports your path towards HIPAA compliance.
NIS2
Canonical can help you with your compliance needs related to EU NIS2.
UK Cyber Essentials
Achieve Cyber Essentials through our robust security patching and hardening tools.
UK NCSC Software Security Code of Practice
Explore how Canonical solutions align with the 14 principles laid out in the Code.
Security compliance in action
Ubuntu Pro helps Lucid Software meet FedRAMP compliance for government contracts
By deploying Ubuntu Pro, Lucid acquired AWS-compatible and FIPS 140-2 certified packages and became FedRAMP compliant.
Read the case study ›
LaunchDarkly becomes the first FedRAMP-authorized feature management platform thanks to Ubuntu Pro
Learn how a SaaS provider achieved effortless FIPS compliance on AWS.
Read the case study ›
How New Mexico State University accelerates compliant federal research with Ubuntu
When the stakes are high and national security is on the line, every decision matters. Just ask the team at New Mexico State University’s Physical Science Laboratory (PSL).
Read the case study ›
Compliance everywhere
On-prem
Ubuntu Pro
enables compliance on Ubuntu desktops and servers in private clouds, Virtual Machines, and air-gapped environments.
In the cloud
Get pre-hardened and compliant Ubuntu Pro images in the public cloud.
Learn more ›
Learn more ›
Learn more ›
On the Edge
Take advantage of Ubuntu Core, our new immutable Ubuntu designed for IoT and Edge deployments with
Ubuntu Pro for Devices
.
Automate compliance with USG
Manual compliance is time consuming and prone to human error. Ubuntu Security Guide (USG) automates hardening and auditing for CIS Benchmarks and DISA-STIG profiles, covering hundreds of individual configuration rules that would otherwise require manual implementation, testing, and ongoing verification. Teams managing compliance across tens or hundreds of Ubuntu systems can reclaim significant engineering time, which is better spent on security improvements than repetitive audit work.
Calculate your time savings
Resources
When an upstream change broke smartcard FIPS authentication – and how we fixed it
This is the story of how Canonical’s Support team provided bug-fix support: we tracked down an upstream change in OpenSC that inadvertently broke FIPS compatibility, coordinated with...
Announcing FIPS 140-3 for Ubuntu Core22
FIPS compliance for IoT use cases in Federal space. In this article, we’ll explore what Ubuntu Core is, and how to use it with FIPS.
How a missing kernel flag broke FIPS-certified containers in managed Kubernetes
A customer building a FedRAMP-compliant deployment found that Ubuntu Pro 22.04 FIPS container images were silently failing on standard, mainline Linux kernels, the kind used by managed...
Sovereign clouds: enhanced data security with confidential computing
Increasingly, enterprises are interested in improving their level of control over their data, achieving digital sovereignty, and even building their own sovereign cloud. However, this means...
A guide to Infrastructure Hardening
Ubuntu compliance guide for US public sector
Understand IoT security and IoT compliance across global markets
A guide to open source vulnerability management
Easily comply with the most
stringent security standards
with Ubuntu Pro
Ubuntu Pro is Canonical’s comprehensive subscription for open source security, support, and compliance. Get access to a trusted open source repository, hardened images and compliance profiles for security standards, and up to 15 years of timely and automated vulnerability fixes for your OS, infrastructure, and applications.
Contact us
Learn more about Ubuntu Pro ›
Close
Contact us about compliance with Ubuntu Pro