




















Unit 42 Looks Toward the Threat Frontier: Preparing for Emerging AI Risks


























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterTrend ReportsLearning Hub 
 
Learning Hub
Unit 42 Looks Toward the Threat Frontier: Preparing for Emerging AI Risks


  3  min read              


Related ProductsAdvanced DNS SecurityAdvanced URL FilteringCloud-Delivered Security ServicesUnit 42 Incident Response 








By:Michael J. Graven 

Published:October 16, 2024 Categories:Learning HubTrend Reports
 Tags:GenAIJavaScriptLLMRed teaming toolShadow AI
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Executive Summary
The Unit 42 Threat Frontier report is our look forward to the future. Today, we see a lot of threat actor activity. But, tomorrow… What should security leaders expect and prepare for?
Our first Threat Frontier topic is generative AI (GenAI). In this report, we share our observations and recommendations around a technology that’s seized the limelight. We discuss whether attackers are using GenAI, how defenders should use it, a few encounters of our own, and some foundational educational material, from a threat-informed perspective.
Key Findings on GenAI in Security
Let’s take the good news first. Conventional cybersecurity tactics are still relevant when defending against AI-enabled attackers. You can use Zero Trust network architecture, comprehensive policy and technical controls, and existing security tools to begin countering GenAI threats today.
That said, it’s hard to say exactly how much attackers are using AI at this time. We have seen evidence of a threat group using AI-enabled tools in attacks. And we have seen attacks that occur at a scale that suggest the presence of AI. But individual attacks don’t come with a “Powered by AI” label.
We do know that attackers have historically innovated with whatever tools are available, and we see signs that they’re interested in learning the potential of AI. However, at this time, AI-powered changes in attacks seem to be evolutionary, not revolutionary. This means attackers are enhancing techniques they already knew to use, rather than using AI to create attacks that have never been seen before.
We’ve seen a rapid rise in “Shadow AI,” just like the rise of Shadow IT in the past. Most organizations we’ve worked with use AI tools, whether or not they have controls in place.
Savvy defenders are beginning to implement AI-specific defenses against the unique aspects of GenAI. And they’re doing this work early in the software development lifecycle. Security that’s bolted on just before launch isn’t as effective as thoughtful design decisions early in the process.
Defending in the AI Era
In our security advisory and incident response work, we have seen a few trends among defenders.
Three Critical Capabilities
Organizations need three critical capabilities to enable safer GenAI adoption:

Identifying when, where and who is using AI applications
Real-time visibility lets you keep up with rapid adoption, especially in areas that lack strong governance controls.
Detecting when sensitive data is used
 Knowing when confidential information, secrets and intellectual property are being used, shared and transmitted means you can make informed risk decisions about them.
Creating and managing granular access control
Including user identity, data provenance and policy compliance in access control decisions helps limit the affected area of potential incidents.

Real Examples
Because it’s difficult to know if and how attackers are using GenAI – unless you are one of the attackers – we describe how Unit 42 red teams are using AI in our proactive security engagements. We are simulating the tactics we believe attackers are, or will be, using at several stages of the attack lifecycle.
And in one fun proof of concept… we deep faked our boss.
GenAI is also helping improve Palo Alto Networks products. For example, we used GenAI to boost our ability to detect malicious JavaScript, in the same ways that attackers are evolving.
Learning and Development
Learning isn’t just for machines. There are many new terms and concepts in GenAI, so in this report we explain some of the current techniques to exploit large language models (LLMs).
This Threat Frontier topic draws on Unit 42’s security consulting and incident response experience as well as from across the Palo Alto Networks organization, from cloud-delivered security services through AI-specific teams.
Conclusion
GenAI has attracted immense attention and adoption in very little time. While there is some evidence that attackers are already using it, defenders can, too. Our first Unit 42 Threat Frontier topic addresses this important new capability. Thus we extend our current understanding to the likely future and recommend ways that defenders can keep up with, or perhaps even outpace, attackers using AI.
How Palo Alto Networks and Unit 42 Can Help
Palo Alto Networks customers are better protected from the threats discussed in this article through our solutions powered by Precision AI: AI Runtime Security™ for AI-specific attacks, AI Access Security™ to protect sensitive data and Prisma Cloud AI Security Posture Management to gain visibility and control over the AI supply chain, as well as Advanced DNS Security and Advanced URL Filtering.
You can take preventative steps by requesting any of our cyber risk management services. The AI Security Assessment is aimed squarely at the issues we discuss in this report.
If you think you may have been impacted by a cyber incident or would like to explore how you could better protect your organization, please contact Unit 42 to connect with a team member. The Unit 42 Incident Response team is available 24/7/365. If you have cyber insurance, you can request Unit 42 by name.
Our world-renowned incident response team and security consulting experts will guide you with an intelligence-driven approach before, during, and after an incident. By partnering with us, you'll gain strategic guidance for bolstering your defenses and safeguarding your organization.
Additional Resources

Unit 42 2024 Incident Response Report – Palo Alto Networks

Updated Oct. 16, 2024, at 7:09 a.m. PT to update protections information. 


Back to top

TagsGenAIJavaScriptLLMRed teaming toolShadow AI



Threat Research Center


Next: Lynx Ransomware: A Rebranding of INC Ransomware







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Perturbation Probing: A New Diagnostic for the Fragility of LLM Safety                  



                      Russian Global Webmail Espionage                  



                      AI, Automation and Attacks: Unpacking the Unit 42 2026 Global Incident Response Report                  









Related Trend Reports Resources




 



Trend Reports July 30, 2025

2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report: Social Engineering Edition



Agent Serpens


Agentic AI


ClickFix
 


                    Read now                    







 



Trend Reports April 23, 2025

Extortion and Ransomware Trends January-March 2025



BianLian


Akira ransomware


Muddled Libra
 


                    Read now                    







 



Trend Reports April 9, 2025

How Prompt Attacks Exploit GenAI and How to Fight Back



LLM


GenAI


Prompt injection
 


                    Read now                    







 



Trend Reports August 14, 2024

Unit 42 Attack Surface Threat Research: Over 23% of Internet-Connected Exposures Involve Critical IT and Security Infrastructure



Attack analysis


Media


Attack surface management
 


                    Read now                    







 



Trend Reports August 9, 2024

Ransomware Review: First Half of 2024



Healthcare


LockBit


RansomHub
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research June 18, 2024

Attack Paths Into VMs in the Cloud



AWS


IaaS


Virtual machines
 


                    Read now                    







 



Trend Reports February 20, 2024

2024 Unit 42 Incident Response Report: Navigating the Shift in Cybersecurity Threat Tactics



AWS


Microsoft Azure


Muddled Libra
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research February 5, 2024

Ransomware Retrospective 2024: Unit 42 Leak Site Analysis



Ambitious Scorpius


Ignoble Scorpius


Leak site
 


                    Read now                    







 



Trend Reports December 29, 2023

From DarkGate to AsyncRAT: Malware Detected and Shared As Unit 42 Timely Threat Intelligence



DarkGate


PikaBot


Wireshark
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















