




















Stay Secure: Why Cyber Hygiene Should Be Part of Your Personal Hygiene

























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsGeneral 
 
General
Stay Secure: Why Cyber Hygiene Should Be Part of Your Personal Hygiene


  3  min read              


Related ProductsUnit 42 Incident Response 








By:Ria Bhatia 

Published:December 16, 2025 Categories:GeneralInsights
 Tags:CybersecurityMFAPatchwork
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











When you hear the term “personal hygiene,” chances are you think of basic routines such as staying clean, wearing deodorant and brushing your teeth. In today’s tech-driven world, another aspect of personal hygiene deserves more attention: cyber hygiene. 
Cyber hygiene refers to the routine actions and practices to stay safe in our digital world. As more of our lives move online, from banking accounts to health records to social interactions, the importance of ensuring clean, secure digital habits has never been greater.
No matter how familiar we are with cyber hygiene, we can take specific initiatives to protect ourselves. Here are three ways individuals of any experience level can work to improve their cyber hygiene habits:
The Tip for Total Beginners (And That’s Okay!)
We understand that it’s easy to reuse certain passwords to actually remember them. In fact, a Forbes study stated that 78% of Americans reuse the same password across multiple platforms. However, reusing the same password across a variety of accounts is like using the same key for one's house, car and office. The more exposure we grant that password, the greater the likelihood for a compromise.
Unit 42 recommends the use of a password manager, which securely generates, stores and autofills passwords to use across all of one’s online accounts. Password managers defend against threats effectively and only require the user to remember one master password.
For choosing passwords in general, the more random, the better. Research shows that random agglomerations of mixed-case letters, numbers and symbols form the strongest passwords. Keep passwords long – over 16 characters is recommended – and keep them unrelated to any personal data including names, birthdays or social security information.
To stay extra secure, we recommend employing multi-factor authentication (you may see it referred to across the web as MFA) when possible. It can easily double your protection and takes little effort to set up.
The Tip For People In the Know
For those already working towards maintaining strong cybersecurity hygiene, it’s critical to proactively close any remaining security gaps. This can be done through protecting against vulnerabilities in your personal devices and software.
Individuals may not think of this in terms of patch management, but it’s useful to apply a similar framework to that used by organizations. Patching refers to the activity of identifying and applying software updates designed to fix known security vulnerabilities in systems and applications. Patching doesn’t have to be overly technical; many effective steps are accessible to individual users.
Best practices for personal patch management include:

Regularly updating operating systems and applications
Removing unused browser extensions and plugins
Securing home networks, routers and IoT devices
Uninstalling unsupported or end-of-life software
Being aware of services or devices that might be accessible from the internet and taking action to secure them

Beyond patch management, other security measures can be taken such as:

Connecting to a VPN when using public Wi-Fi
Enabling multi-factor authentication whenever possible
Controlling access permissions on services or devices
Being mindful of what data is shared with online platforms and AI tools

It’s important to continuously monitor systems you commonly use. Ask yourself: When was the last time I completed an audit of all of the installed applications on my home computer? Or have I ever even checked if my printer’s drivers are up to date? These checks that we tend to forget about are neither complicated nor costly, and even a few minutes of attention each month can dramatically strengthen your overall cyber hygiene.
The Tip For Cybersecurity Professionals
While advanced tools and powerful frameworks play a critical role in defending against threats, their effectiveness is ultimately constrained by human behavior. The weakest link in any cybersecurity strategy is often not the system, but the human using it. People already well-versed in practicing strong cyber hygiene are already in a position to lead by example to cultivate a culture of security awareness.
Some ways to do this include:

Sharing helpful reminders, valuable advice and real-world experiences through social media
Educating friends and family on the benefits of maintaining secure cyber hygiene
Creating a workplace culture where people feel comfortable reporting suspicious activities or mistakes without fear of punishment

Cyber hygiene is an ever-evolving process that requires continuous growth and improvement. By staying informed about the latest threats and sharing that knowledge, we can make a significant impact in protecting both ourselves and those around us. Just like brushing our teeth, cyber hygiene is something that we should do regularly – because a secure digital life is a healthier digital life.
To dive deeper into strengthening the human side of defense, explore the 2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report: Social Engineering Edition. Check out the “Recommendations for Defenders” section for actionable insights.


Back to top

TagsCybersecurityMFAPatchwork



Threat Research Center


Next: Exploitation of Critical Vulnerability in React Server Components (Updated December 12)







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Identity Abuse Through Trusted Communication Channels                  



                      Threat Brief: Mitigating Large-Scale Credential Attacks (Updated August 18)                  



                      Anatomy of an Attack: The Payroll Pirates and the Power of Social Engineering                  









Related General Resources




 



Insights September 16, 2026

Atomic macOS (AMOS) Stealer Activity



MacOS


Threat intelligence


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 2, 2026

An AI-Assisted Cyber Attack: Inside a Unit 42 Investigation



Agentic AI


Frontier AI
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 28, 2026

Perturbation Probing: A New Diagnostic for the Fragility of LLM Safety



AI


Jailbreak


LLM
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 21, 2026

Connecting the Dots: Securing the Overlooked Corners of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) Supply Chain



ChainDrop


Npm packages


Software supply-chain attack
 


                    Read now                    







 



High Profile Threats August 18, 2026

Threat Brief: Mitigating Large-Scale Credential Attacks (Updated August 18)



Credential theft
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 4, 2026

The Frontier AI Vulnerability Burst: Industrializing Autonomous Zero-Day Discovery in Open-Source Software



AI


Frontier AI


Vulnerability Exploitation
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights July 2, 2026

How We Added WebAuthn to a Browser-Based RDP Client



IDA Pro


Microsoft


RDP
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 12, 2026

Tracing Digital Intent: New MacOS Tahoe 26 Artifact Discovered



Digital forensics


MacOS
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 8, 2026

When “Hi, This Is IT” Comes Through Microsoft Teams



Cloaked Ursa


Identity


Phishing
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights May 28, 2026

2026 World Cup: Discussing The World’s Biggest Game’s Attack Surface



Fiddling Scorpius


Fighting Ursa


Muddled Libra
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















