




















Responding to Cloud Incidents: A Step-by-Step Guide From the 2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report



























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsCloud Cybersecurity Research 
 
Cloud Cybersecurity Research
Responding to Cloud Incidents: A Step-by-Step Guide From the 2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report


  5  min read              


Related ProductsCortexCortex XSIAMUnit 42 Incident Response 








By:Margaret Kelley 

Published:October 7, 2025 Categories:Cloud Cybersecurity ResearchGeneralInsights
 Tags:Cloud Infrastructure ProtectionCloud SecurityUnit 42 Incident Response Report
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Cloud incidents like ransomware attacks and account compromise can bring operations to a halt and create a situation in which costs, reputation and customer trust are at stake.
What happens when your cloud environment falls under attack? How do you mitigate organizational impact step by step?
Unit 42 helps cybersecurity pros understand how cloud investigations differ from traditional incidents, and what matters most when time is critical.
Scope and Mindset for Cloud Investigations
According to the Unit 42 2025 Global Incident Response Report, 29% of incident investigations conducted in 2024 involved cloud or SaaS environments. One in five incidents involved threat actors adversely impacting cloud environments and assets. With entire business models relying on cloud-native architecture, it is vital to protect cloud surfaces.
Traditional incident investigations focus heavily on endpoints and network activity, so cloud investigations require a mindset shift. When cloud environments are breached, investigations primarily focus on investigating identities, misconfigurations and service interactions.
Unit 42 Cloud Incident Response begins each investigation by asking several questions:

What is the overall impact?
What logs do we have or lack?
Are identity/service misuse, automated actions or API exploitation contributing factors?

We’ll now go through the process, step by step.
Step 1: Triage and Scoping
Cloud investigations begin with triage and scoping. Investigators will do two things:

Establish a timeline.
 When did the abnormal activity begin? How was it detected? Is it ongoing?
Determine what cloud assets are involved.
Does the incident involve virtual machines? What about identity and access management (IAM), cloud storage, containers, etc.?

Log gaps can be a major challenge due to misconfigurations or retention issues. Incident responders often uncover these problems during an engagement, which can be too late and obfuscate threat actor activity.
Tip: Before any incidents occur, ensure you’ll have the data to investigate breaches properly:

Enable logging within the CSP and retain the data for a minimum of 90 days.
Enable additional logs specifically for tracking activity against your most sensitive resources.
Ensure these logs are properly stored and encrypted to prevent any data loss if they are accessed by unauthorized parties.
Centralize logs and apply machine learning and AI to correlate alerts.

Step 2: Evidence Collection
Once the incident has been triaged, evidence collection begins for investigators:

Collect audit logs, resource-specific logs and snapshots.

These can provide details on what resources the attacker can access.


Work with teams to capture volatile artifacts before they disappear.

Cloud environments are fast-moving and ephemeral, so anything that could assist the investigation needs to specifically be saved.


Image cloud virtual machines (VMs) or containers.

These images involve taking snapshots of virtual machines and their attached volumes.



This evidence enables understanding the attack and speedy remediation.
“In one investigation, the organization successfully mitigated an attack, only to be compromised again a short time later. Our investigators discovered that threat actors had automated exploitation of a vulnerability within a service used within the organization’s cloud-based products. By combining this with using anti-forensic techniques to hide activity, the threat actor was able to regain access to the organization and its clients even after internal teams appeared to have successfully removed them.”
–2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report, page 12
Step 3: Identity and Role Forensics
The majority of cloud breaches begin with compromised and overpermissioned identities. Bad actors gaining access to one admin-level account could wipe out business data or infrastructure. They could even provide themselves more SSH certificates or keys to enable attack persistence.
Attackers often use legitimate credentials. Behavioral baselining and anomaly detection via user and entity behavior analytics (UEBA) or Cortex XSIAM® is key.
During this step, the Unit 42 team will investigate:

IAM configurations
Assume-role patterns
Federated login logs
Privilege escalation attempts

One red flag investigators search for is excessive or unexpected identity hopping. Tracing how permissions are passed between identities, services or accounts is challenging but important.
Step 4: Uncovering Lateral Movement and Persistence
Cloud environments are often interconnected with the same set of credentials, depending on the architecture. Once inside, cloud-native lateral movement might involve attackers moving across regions, services or identities. Resource sprawl, the third-party ecosystem, as well as other factors can make these advancements difficult to detect.
Living-off-the-land (LotL) and modify-the-land (MtL) techniques also help them evade detection, because they abuse existing resources rather than import new, malicious ones (like malware).
To detect these attacks, teams must detect anomalies, not just signatures. That requires establishing a baseline of behavior. Once a baseline is achieved, you can flag unusual API calls, new role assumptions or atypical access patterns that are beyond failed logins.
Step 5: Containment, Eradication and Recovery
This step of a cloud incident investigation can be broken down into three parts:
Containment of Compromised Assets
Containment needs to be fast and surgical to avoid alerting the attacker or impacting production/operations. Investigators will revoke credentials, restrict IAM permissions and quarantine virtual machines, preferably all at once.
Eradication of Attacker Persistence
All possible sources of attacker persistence identified above need to be blocked. Eradication includes identifying persistence mechanisms, validating configuration changes and revoking tokens or rotating credentials.
Recovery of Business Operations
Recovery involves validating the integrity of cloud services, along with patching and monitoring exploited attack vectors.
For faster incident containment and recovery, Unit 42 has several recommendations:

Enable and centralize logs.
Define various cloud IR playbooks.
Prepare cloud sandboxes for forensics.

Learn from Past Experiences to Secure Future Environments
Ensure the tools to gather images and logs are set up along with your cloud environment, so you always have the evidence needed to investigate the cause of a breach. Understand the roles and identities involved, look for signs of attacker persistence and then contain and eradicate the intrusion. Once the attack is stopped, your security experts should analyze the data to identify the attack vector and close it.
Institutionalize lessons learned from previous incidents. As cloud adoption increases so will cloud-native attacks. Unit 42 can help you take a proactive stance against cloud attacks. Our approach identifies root causes and uses lessons learned, so clients increase their resiliency.

Gain visibility: Get a complete picture of where your organization stands with our Unit 42 Cloud Security Assessment, which includes an analysis of cloud threat trends and adversaries related to your business and technology.
Adopt zero trust: Taking incremental steps toward zero trust is pivotal to shrinking your cloud’s attack surface. Our Unit 42 Zero Trust Advisory helps you see where you stand today and helps you adopt a modern cybersecurity approach that eliminates implicit trust.
Get elite backup: With a Unit 42 Retainer, our experts become an extension of your team. We’ll be on speed dial in case of an incident, and we’ll help you achieve a proactive stance against tomorrow’s threats.

Ready to fortify your cloud defenses? Read the 2025 Global Incident Response Report for key insights from 500+ Unit 42 IR cases last year to help you better navigate the changing threat landscape.
Key Takeaways:

Cloud incidents are increasing and require a shift in investigation mindset: Cloud and SaaS environments are increasingly targeted in incident investigations (29% in 2024), necessitating a focus on identities, misconfigurations and service interactions rather than traditional endpoints and network activity.
Proactive logging and evidence collection are crucial: To effectively respond to cloud incidents, organizations must enable and centralize logs, retain data for a minimum of 90 days, and collect volatile artifacts and virtual machine images promptly. Log gaps due to misconfigurations or retention issues can significantly hinder investigations.
Identity and lateral movement are key areas of focus for attackers: The majority of cloud breaches begin with compromised identities. Attackers often use legitimate credentials and employ "living-off-the-land" and "modify-the-land" techniques to move laterally and maintain persistence. Detecting these attacks requires behavioral baselining and anomaly detection.



Back to top

TagsCloud Infrastructure ProtectionCloud SecurityUnit 42 Incident Response Report



Threat Research Center


Next: TOTOLINK X6000R: Three New Vulnerabilities Uncovered







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      3 Consulting Myths Debunked by Unit 42 Experts                  



                      Inside the Modern SOC: Defending the Cross-Environment Pivot                  



                      Inside the Modern SOC: The Identity Front Door                  









Related  Resources




 



Threat Research September 21, 2026

From Exposure to Lockdown: How AWS Neutralizes Compromised IAM Credentials through Managed Policies



AWS


AWS CloudTrail


Bedrock
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 18, 2026

A Vault with a Heap-View: The Uncomfortable Space Between AgentCore Harness and Identity



Agentic AI


AWS


Cloud
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 16, 2026

Atomic macOS (AMOS) Stealer Activity



MacOS


Threat intelligence


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 14, 2026

Unmasking Cloud Identities: From Behavioral Clustering to Automated Detection



AWS CloudTrail


Cloud detection


DevOps
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 2, 2026

An AI-Assisted Cyber Attack: Inside a Unit 42 Investigation



Agentic AI


Frontier AI
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 28, 2026

Perturbation Probing: A New Diagnostic for the Fragility of LLM Safety



AI


Jailbreak


LLM
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 21, 2026

Connecting the Dots: Securing the Overlooked Corners of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) Supply Chain



ChainDrop


Npm packages


Software supply-chain attack
 


                    Read now                    







 



High Profile Threats August 18, 2026

Threat Brief: Mitigating Large-Scale Credential Attacks (Updated August 18)



Credential theft
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 4, 2026

The Frontier AI Vulnerability Burst: Industrializing Autonomous Zero-Day Discovery in Open-Source Software



AI


Frontier AI


Vulnerability Exploitation
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights July 2, 2026

How We Added WebAuthn to a Browser-Based RDP Client



IDA Pro


Microsoft


RDP
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















