




















The Browser Defense Playbook: Stopping the Attacks That Start on Your Screen
























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsGeneral 
 
General
The Browser Defense Playbook: Stopping the Attacks That Start on Your Screen


  3  min read              


Related ProductsPrisma AccessSecure Access Service Edge (SASE)Unit 42 Incident Response 








By:Unit 42 

Published:December 2, 2025 Categories:GeneralInsights
 Tags:Cloud SecurityDefense
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











The Browser: The New Center of Work — and Risk
The predominance of cloud-based apps and the trend towards remote work have made the browser the place where most work happens. In fact, about 85% of daily work takes place there.
In many ways, it’s a win for all involved.
Users can work from a wider range of locations and devices, accessing full “desktops” inside a browser tab. Organizations can manage apps and browser access easier than through localized desktop software. This all allows for greater central management, lower costs and better flexibility.
But where work goes, attackers tend to follow.
In Unit 42’s 2025 Global Incident Response Report, nearly half of the incidents we investigated involved malicious activity launched or facilitated through employees’ browsers. Popular tactics include phishing, abuse of URL redirects and malware downloads – each one exploiting the browser session without adequate detection or blocking.
Securing the browser should be a high priority. In this blog, we’ll explain its unique risks and provide tips for defending it.
Why Browsers Fail: Common Pitfalls and Security Lapses
Google Chrome, Apple Safari, Mozilla Firefox and Microsoft Edge come from the biggest, most trusted names in tech. As such, users tend to treat the browser as a defense between the internet and the organization’s infrastructure.
Though browsers do provide some security through TLS connections, sandboxing and automatic updates, attackers still plant malicious traps for unsuspecting users to trip.
Social Engineering
Fraudulent emails, fake websites and login portals, malicious links and files – phishing attacks are largely conducted through browsers.
Browser Extensions
Marketplaces like the Google Web Store offer tens of thousands of extensions. Many of these extensions aren’t secure, and some are outright malicious—in fact, a Stanford University study found that 280 million Google Chrome users installed extensions containing malware over a three-year period.
Users who work on their personal device face more risk. Unlike managed corporate environments, personal devices often lack centralized security policies and monitoring to vet or block suspicious extension installations. For example, an extension for converting files or finding retail discounts may hold malware.
Browser-Specific Tactics
Session hijacking tactics allow malware on the endpoint to steal session tokens from the browser in order to impersonate the user. Once a session is compromised, numerous other security controls can be bypassed. Cross-site scripting allows attackers to inject scripts into web-based apps. These scripts can steal user sessions, modify transactions or show fake login screens.
No Clicking Necessary
“Don’t click anything suspicious” is no longer valid advice. Malicious assets seem more authentic than ever, and many don’t even need clicking. Simply visiting a malicious or compromised website can cause malware to be downloaded and installed without the user’s knowledge or interaction.
A Lack of Policy
For many organizations, the browser isn’t on their radar in terms of being part of the attack surface. As such, many organizations allow insecure protocols and lack an inventory of permissible extensions.
Think of the browser as the new endpoint. Through the browser, users access internal systems, sensitive information, source code, financial transactions and more.
Crucial Steps Every Defender Should Take
New tools are emerging that help secure the browser. For example, enterprise-grade secure browsers come with strict extension allow lists. They conduct data loss prevention based on context directly in the browser, enable role-based browsing permissions and more.
With or without these tools, organizations should still take steps to harden systems and pursue strategies that support browser security.
See all traffic without needing to decrypt traffic, by analyzing the encrypted traffic’s behavior rather than its contents.
Extend zero trust to the browser by implementing multi-factor authentication for every browser-based app and using step-up MFA for sensitive user actions. Tailor access rules according to context like device security posture, location, or network
Bring the browser into the fold of security by implementing tools that detect suspicious behavior like credential misuse, sensitive access from unknown devices and malware hidden in large files before they are downloaded.
Zero Trust: Implementation Strategies
Just as organizations would implement zero trust in internal systems, they should verify identity and control access tightly within the browser.
First things first: authenticate the user’s access permissions before they open the browser. Then, validate the user’s identity before granting access to any web app and apply conditional access.
Apply the principle of least privilege to SaaS and web apps — which users can access which apps and what they can do inside them — with granular last-mile data controls.
Assume all web traffic and extensions are risky. Only allow vetted, enterprise-approved extensions. Continuously monitor extensions and block them should they pose a risk.
Continuously monitor browser sessions for risky behavior and log everything. Perform continuous risk assessment regarding device health, user behavior and application risk.
Finalizing your Playbook: Achieving Superior Browser Security
Our Prisma Browser combines zero trust principles by leveraging our cloud-delivered security services. It provides real-time traffic inspection without the need for encryption, malware prevention, URL filtering and data loss prevention across traffic — all without an agent. Working with Prisma Access secures access to internal applications without exposing them to the public internet, ensuring every user and device is continuously authenticated and authorized before granting access.


Back to top

TagsCloud SecurityDefense



Threat Research Center


Next: The Golden Scale: 'Tis the Season for Unwanted Gifts







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Essential Data Sources for Detection Beyond the Endpoint                  



                      Bring the Fight to the Edge: Turning Time Into an Advantage in OT Security                  



                      "Shai-Hulud" Worm Compromises npm Ecosystem in Supply Chain Attack (Updated November 26)                  









Related General Resources




 



Insights September 16, 2026

Atomic macOS (AMOS) Stealer Activity



MacOS


Threat intelligence


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 2, 2026

An AI-Assisted Cyber Attack: Inside a Unit 42 Investigation



Agentic AI


Frontier AI
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 28, 2026

Perturbation Probing: A New Diagnostic for the Fragility of LLM Safety



AI


Jailbreak


LLM
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 21, 2026

Connecting the Dots: Securing the Overlooked Corners of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) Supply Chain



ChainDrop


Npm packages


Software supply-chain attack
 


                    Read now                    







 



High Profile Threats August 18, 2026

Threat Brief: Mitigating Large-Scale Credential Attacks (Updated August 18)



Credential theft
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 4, 2026

The Frontier AI Vulnerability Burst: Industrializing Autonomous Zero-Day Discovery in Open-Source Software



AI


Frontier AI


Vulnerability Exploitation
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights July 2, 2026

How We Added WebAuthn to a Browser-Based RDP Client



IDA Pro


Microsoft


RDP
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 12, 2026

Tracing Digital Intent: New MacOS Tahoe 26 Artifact Discovered



Digital forensics


MacOS
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 8, 2026

When “Hi, This Is IT” Comes Through Microsoft Teams



Cloaked Ursa


Identity


Phishing
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights May 28, 2026

2026 World Cup: Discussing The World’s Biggest Game’s Attack Surface



Fiddling Scorpius


Fighting Ursa


Muddled Libra
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















