




















Privacy: Why Apple Pay will be Better than Google Wallet






















































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterThreat ResearchLearning Hub 
 
Learning Hub
Privacy: Why Apple Pay will be Better than Google Wallet


  4  min read              











By:Ryan Olson 

Published:September 18, 2014 Categories:Learning HubThreat Research
 Tags:AppleApple PayGoogle PlayGoogle WalletIPhone
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











On September 9, Apple announced that the latest iPhone models would come with a new technology called Apple Pay which allows people to purchase items with their phones, both in stores and online. Many smug Android users looked at the announcement and thought “Sounds like Google Wallet. Welcome to 2011 Apple.” As an individual who is well entrenched in the Google ecosystem, (I have a Nexus 5 on in my pocket and a Moto 360 on my wrist) I initially had the same reaction. But, after looking at the two systems more closely, I think Apple Pay will be the better platform for users, and the reason for that is privacy.

Whether they realize it or not, nearly every Android user has a Google Wallet account, as they are required to use the system to purchase applications from Google Play (Google’s App store). Only a fraction of those users have made a purchase using Google Wallet’s Near Field Communications (NFC) system in stores. I have, and it’s nearly as seamless as the Apple Pay system that CEO Tim Cook demonstrated earlier this month.
The systems have very similar functionalities. Both use NFC to securely enable in-store transactions. Both require additional authentication to access the wallet, a 4-digit code for Google Wallet and a TouchID fingerprint for Apple Pay. The biggest difference between them is how they technically enable the transactions and the impact that has on the user’s privacy.
At their core, both systems allow users to take their existing credit and debit cards, enter them into their mobile phone and then use them to make purchases. For both systems this can occur through direct entry on the keyboard or by taking a photo of your card. The iPhone 6 contains a physical Secure Element that is responsible for conducting secure transactions with your card issuer. Your card number may transit an Apple server during the initial enrollment, but Apple doesn’t store it. Google uses “Host Card Emulation”(HCE) in place of a physical Secure Element. In other words, Google’s servers store your card number and are involved with every transaction you make.
When I make a payment using my Nexus 5 and Google Wallet, the app interacts with the card reader over NFC and then sends the details of the transaction to Google’s server. In a fraction of a second, a temporary MasterCard number is generated for my single purchase and sent to the stores payment processor. My actual card number never passes through the merchant’s point-of-sale system, which is great for anyone worried about the slew of POS breaches announced in the last 12 months.
Apple Pay is similar, but because the iPhone contains a Secure Element, there is no need for Apple to be involved with the purchase. Instead, the Secure Element generates a unique transaction ID and passes it and the transaction details encrypted to the payment processor. Apple’s documentation on how to use Apple Pay in iOS apps shows how this works.

This difference in process flow is invisible to the user, but it’s significant. Google collects data on every transaction I make with Google Wallet and can use it according to their privacy policy. I know Google works very hard to keep my data safe, but by storing all of these details I’m open to potential exposure, either through a data breach, a subpoena or maybe just an accident.
Apple’s public comments on privacy make it clear that Tim Cook is extremely aware of this difference between Apple Pay and Google Wallet, just take a look at this interview from Monday.

Yesterday, Tim Cook also posted a public letter to the Apple website detailing the company’s commitment to protecting their user’s privacy. Here’s an excerpt that really drives home the point he’s trying to make:
“A few years ago, users of Internet services began to realize that when an online service is free, you’re not the customer. You’re the product. But at Apple, we believe a great customer experience shouldn’t come at the expense of your privacy.
Our business model is very straightforward: We sell great products. We don’t build a profile based on your email content or web browsing habits to sell to advertisers. We don’t “monetize” the information you store on your iPhone or in iCloud. And we don’t read your email or your messages to get information to market to you. Our software and services are designed to make our devices better. Plain and simple.”
I don’t plan on unloading all of my Google-driven services and devices. Google’s data collection allows them to build some amazing products and Apple Pay isn’t enough for me to jump ship. However, I also don’t plan to begin using an electronic wallet unless it offers me the same level of privacy Apple Pay will when it’s released in October.


Back to top

TagsAppleApple PayGoogle PlayGoogle WalletIPhone



Threat Research Center


Next: AppBuyer: New iOS Malware Steals Apple ID and Password to Buy Apps






Related Articles



                      Remote Code Execution With Modern AI/ML Formats and Libraries                  



                      LANDFALL: New Commercial-Grade Android Spyware in Exploit Chain Targeting Samsung Devices                  



                      Unit 42 Discovers 15 New Vulnerabilities Across Microsoft, Adobe and Apple Products                  









Related Threat Research Resources




 



Threat Research September 29, 2026

OperTraitors: How Kubernetes Operators Betray Your Security Posture



AI


AI agents


API
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 21, 2026

From Exposure to Lockdown: How AWS Neutralizes Compromised IAM Credentials through Managed Policies



AWS


AWS CloudTrail


Bedrock
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 18, 2026

A Vault with a Heap-View: The Uncomfortable Space Between AgentCore Harness and Identity



Agentic AI


AWS


Cloud
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 14, 2026

Unmasking Cloud Identities: From Behavioral Clustering to Automated Detection



AWS CloudTrail


Cloud detection


DevOps
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 10, 2026

The Machine With Many Faces: Post-Exploitation Identity Misuse in SPIFFE/SPIRE



API


Cryptographic


JSON
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 9, 2026

Untracked Nightmares: The Threats Hiding Behind Commodity Infrastructure



ARKTunnel


C2


CL-CRI-1171
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 3, 2026

Attackers Expose Ongoing AI Tool Use Targeting Organizations in Latin America



Agentic AI


ChatGPT


CL-CRI-1131
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 2, 2026

An AI-Assisted Cyber Attack: Inside a Unit 42 Investigation



Agentic AI


Frontier AI
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 31, 2026

Spring Ring: An Inside Look at Voice Phishing Campaigns in Microsoft Teams



Cloaked Ursa


Entra ID


Microsoft Teams
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 25, 2026

The State of AI-Enabled Malware August 2026: From Brand Abuse to Agentic Execution



Backdoor


Bitcoin


DLL hijacking
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















