




















Threat Brief: Escalation of Cyber Risk Related to Iran (Updated June 30)

































































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 


















English





German


English


Spanish (LATAM)


French


Japanese


Korean


Portuguese


Chinese (Traditional)





  Threat Research CenterHigh Profile ThreatsCybercrime 
 
Cybercrime
Threat Brief: Escalation of Cyber Risk Related to Iran (Updated June 30)


  6  min read              


Related ProductsAdvanced Threat PreventionCloud-Delivered Security ServicesCortexCortex CloudCortex XDRCortex XSIAM 








By:Unit 42 

Published:June 25, 2025 Categories:CybercrimeHacktivismHigh Profile ThreatsMalwareThreat Actor GroupsThreat Research
 Tags:Agent SerpensAgonizing SerpensBoggy SerpensCurious SerpensDDoS attacksDevious SerpensEvasive SerpensGenAIIran
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Executive Summary
Unit 42 stopped monitoring this threat and updating the brief on Aug. 14, 2025.
The recent conflict involving Iran, particularly its military engagements with Israel and the U.S., significantly heightens the risk of cyber spillover. This extends traditional battlegrounds into the digital realm.
While we have not yet seen a dramatic uptick in Iranian-directed cyberattacks, further escalations could manifest as a surge in cyber operations by both state-sponsored groups and independent hacktivists. Their aim would be to disrupt, collect intelligence on or influence perceived adversaries. Iranian threat groups have a history of targeting critical infrastructure and sensitive industries across public and private enterprises globally and these attacks can have far-reaching consequences.
Over the past two years, Unit 42 has observed Iranian-backed groups and hacktivists expanding their global cyber operations, including employing the following activities:

Opportunistically leveraging generative AI (GenAI) for social engineering and influence operations
Explicitly linking destructive attacks to geopolitical events

These are in addition to activities these groups have historically been known for. It is possible these activities could further intensify in the context of recent events involving Israel and the U.S. These activities include:

Destructive attacks
Website defacements
Distributed-denial-of-service (DDoS) attacks
Data exfiltration and wiper attacks, reminiscent of those we previously observed from Iranian groups targeting the Israeli education and technology sectors

We track threat activity across the globe, with Iran as one of four major nation-state actors we monitor, alongside China, Russia and North Korea. The primary objectives of Iranian nation-state actors frequently include espionage and disruption. These groups employ a variety of tactics, techniques and procedures (TTPs), including targeted spear-phishing campaigns and the exploitation of known vulnerabilities. Specific observations include:

Covert infrastructure for espionage: A recent case identified by Unit 42 revealed suspected covert Iranian infrastructure impersonating a German modeling agency to conduct cyberespionage. These operations deploy fake websites to collect extensive visitor data, suggesting strategic intelligence-gathering objectives.
AI-enhanced social engineering: We recently observed an Iranian threat group (Agent Serpens, aka CharmingKitten) using GenAI in a malicious PDF, which it masked as a document from the U.S. non-profit research organization RAND. The group deployed this PDF alongside targeted malware.
Persistent destructive operations: The Iranian-backed Agonizing Serpens APT group targeted the Israeli education and technology sectors from January-October 2023, aiming to steal sensitive data like personally identifiable information (PII) and intellectual property. In these attacks, it also deployed wipers to destroy systems and hinder forensic analysis.

In the context of the ongoing geopolitical situation with Iran, we've identified four key areas of potential cyberthreat activity:

Iranian nation-state threat actors: In the near term, Iranian nation-state hackers are likely to leverage targeted attacks, from spear phishing emails aimed at diplomats to destructive wiper malware targeting organizations with ties to U.S. interests.
Hacktivists: It is likely that hacktivists supporting Iran will continue to conduct disruptive attacks and influence operations targeting U.S.-based interests both domestically and abroad. This includes DDoS attacks to disrupt internet access and influence operations on social media platforms.
Cybercriminal groups: These groups could opportunistically exploit global uncertainty to launch phishing campaigns, leveraging world events as a theme for malicious emails and attachments.
Other nation-state actors: There is a potential for other nation-state threat actors to use events to further their interests. These attacks could include false-flag operations where actors from somewhere other than Iran disguise their attacks to appear as if they originated from Iran. This was seen when Russia previously hijacked Iran’s cyber infrastructure in 2019 to piggyback into networks already compromised by Iranian actors.

Palo Alto Networks customers can receive protections from and mitigations for this threat actor activity through the following products:

Next-Generation Firewalls with Advanced Threat Prevention
Cortex XDR, XSIAM and Cortex Cloud

The Unit 42 Incident Response team can also be engaged to help with a compromise or to provide a proactive assessment to lower your risk.



Threat Groups Discussed
Agent Serpens (aka APT42), Agonizing Serpens (aka Pink Sandstorm), Boggy Serpens (aka MuddyWater), Curious Serpens (aka Peach Sandstorm), Devious Serpens (aka Imperial Kitten), Evasive Serpens, Industrial Serpens



Current Scope of Cyberattacks
Unit 42 tracks various Iranian state-sponsored actors under the constellation name Serpens. These groups could increase or escalate activity in the upcoming weeks.
State-sponsored Iranian cyber capabilities are often used to project and amplify political messaging (often using destructive and psychological tactics). These efforts are likely to focus on regional targets (e.g., Israel) as well as what they deem high-value targets (e.g., politicians, key decision-makers and other directly involved entities).
State-sponsored campaigns might target their victim’s supply-chains, critical infrastructure, vendors or providers.
The majority of the already-reported cyberattacks related to this event are intentionally disruptive denial-of-service (DoS) attacks. Third-party attackers such as hacktivists and proxy actors typically support one side or the other, aiming to negatively impact and influence the opposing side.
As of June 22, 2025, 120 hacktivist groups are reportedly active in response to these events. Other public reports indicate that both cybercriminal groups and state-supported proxy groups are also active.
DDoS appears to be the most-reported attack method, followed by destructive attacks. Samples of destructive malware like data wipers related to these events have been observed by researchers. Destructive attacks also include destroying $90 million of funds in a June 2025 crypto exchange breach.
Other data breaches and associated data leaks are intended to damage either side. Reports also indicate the targeting of operational technology (OT). These two are sometimes related, because data breaches of energy and other utility companies have also been reported in direct relation to these events.
Iranian Threat Groups Tracked by Unit 42

Agent Serpens (aka APT42)

An espionage and surveillance group focusing on Israel and the U.S., targeting dissidents, activists, journalists and other groups that are deemed to pose a risk or which protests against the Iranian government
Initial access: Primarily spear phishing, including credential harvesting with fake login pages, also watering hole attacks


Agonizing Serpens (aka Pink Sandstorm)

This group engages in espionage, ransomware and destructive malware attacks against targets in the Middle East, with a significant focus on attacks against Israel.
Initial access: Password attacks (e.g., brute force, password sprays) as well as exploitation of known vulnerabilities (followed by deployment of web shells)


Boggy Serpens (aka MuddyWater)

A cyberespionage group that provides stolen data and access to the Iranian government as well as other threat actors
Initial access: Spear phishing and exploitation of known vulnerabilities


Curious Serpens (aka Peach Sandstorm)

Espionage group active since 2013 targeting the aerospace, defense and energy sectors in the U.S., Middle East and Europe. The group has leveraged cloud infrastructure including Azure for C2.
Initial access: Broadly targeted password spray attacks or job recruitment based social engineering campaigns to deliver custom malware, including the Falsefont or Tickler backdoors. Once inside, the group is known for conducting discovery activities with tools including AzureHound and Roadtools to collect and dump data from Microsoft Entra ID.


Devious Serpens (aka Imperial Kitten)

An espionage group known for targeting IT providers in the Middle East as part of supply chain campaigns
Initial access: Social engineering through social media, credential spear phishing and watering-hole attacks, deploying web shells


Evasive Serpens (aka APT34)

A prolific espionage group known for broad targeting that aligns with nation-state interests
Initial access: Relies heavily on spear phishing, though it has also been associated with other more complex attacks such as credential harvesting campaigns and DNS hijacking


Industrial Serpens (aka Chrono Kitten)

An Iranian-proxy group associated with disruptive attacks (e.g., ransomware, wiper malware, hack-and-leak attacks) that align with state interests
Initial access: Social engineering to distribute Android spyware hosted on spoofed websites, password attacks (e.g. brute force, password sprays) and exploitation of known vulnerabilities



Conclusion
Given the variety of tactics that threat actors are using, a multi-layered defense is most effective as no single tool can provide complete protection against these adaptable threats. We recommend focusing on foundational security hygiene, a proven approach that provides resilient protection against a wide range of tactics.
We recommend taking the following precautions to help mitigate impact from possible attacks.
Tactical Recommendations

Increase response to any threat signals where possible, especially those associated with internet-facing assets such as websites, virtual private network (VPN) gateways and cloud assets
Ensure internet-facing infrastructure is up to date with security patches and other hardening best practices
Train employees on phishing and social engineering tactics and continuously monitor for suspicious activity
On June 30, CISA, the FBI, DoD Cyber Crime Center and NSA published a joint fact sheet, "Iranian Cyber Actors May Target Vulnerable US Networks and Entities of Interest," urging organizations to remain vigilant against potential targeted cyber operations by Iranian state-sponsored or affiliated threat actors.

Strategic Recommendations

Begin or update business continuity plans for any staff or assets that digital or physical attacks could disrupt
Prepare to validate and respond to claims of breaches or data leaks

Threat actors might use claims (even if they’re untrue) to embarrass or harass victims, or to disseminate political narratives



As activity is likely to continue to be intensified throughout the duration of these events, it’s important to remain vigilant to potential attacks. Hacktivists and state-supported threat actors have been opportunistic, leading to potentially unexpected sources being targeted.
We will update this threat brief as more relevant information becomes available.
How Palo Alto Networks and Unit 42 Can Help
Palo Alto Networks customers can leverage a variety of product protections and updates to identify and defend against threats related to aspects of these events.
If you think you might have been compromised or have an urgent matter, get in touch with the Unit 42 Incident Response team or call:

North America: Toll Free: +1 (866) 486-4842 (866.4.UNIT42)
UK: +44.20.3743.3660
Europe and Middle East: +31.20.299.3130
Asia: +65.6983.8730
Japan: +81.50.1790.0200
Australia: +61.2.4062.7950
India: 00080005045107

Next-Generation Firewalls and Prisma Access With Advanced Threat Prevention
Advanced Threat Prevention has an inbuilt machine learning-based detection that can detect exploits in real time.
Cortex
Cortex XDR, XSIAM and Cortex Cloud are designed to prevent the execution of known malicious malware. It is also designed to prevent the execution of unknown malware and other malicious activities using Behavioral Threat Protection and machine learning based on the Local Analysis module.
Updated June 26, 2025, at 1:34 p.m. PT to add entry on Curious Serpens to section on Iran-based threat groups tracked by Unit 42. 
Updated June 30, 2025, at 1:20 p.m. PT to update Tactical Recommendations section. 


Back to top

TagsAgent SerpensAgonizing SerpensBoggy SerpensCurious SerpensDDoS attacksDevious SerpensEvasive SerpensGenAIIran



Threat Research Center


Next: Cybercriminals Abuse Open-Source Tools To Target Africa’s Financial Sector







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Tracking Iranian APT Screening Serpens’ 2026 Espionage Campaigns                  



                      Paved With Intent: ROADtools and Nation-State Tactics in the Cloud                  



                      That AI Extension Helping You Write Emails? It’s Reading Them First                  









Related  Resources




 



Threat Research September 29, 2026

OperTraitors: How Kubernetes Operators Betray Your Security Posture



AI


AI agents


API
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 16, 2026

Atomic macOS (AMOS) Stealer Activity



MacOS


Threat intelligence


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 10, 2026

The Machine With Many Faces: Post-Exploitation Identity Misuse in SPIFFE/SPIRE



API


Cryptographic


JSON
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 9, 2026

Untracked Nightmares: The Threats Hiding Behind Commodity Infrastructure



ARKTunnel


C2


CL-CRI-1171
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 3, 2026

Attackers Expose Ongoing AI Tool Use Targeting Organizations in Latin America



Agentic AI


ChatGPT


CL-CRI-1131
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 31, 2026

Spring Ring: An Inside Look at Voice Phishing Campaigns in Microsoft Teams



Cloaked Ursa


Entra ID


Microsoft Teams
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 25, 2026

The State of AI-Enabled Malware August 2026: From Brand Abuse to Agentic Execution



Backdoor


Bitcoin


DLL hijacking
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 20, 2026

Identity Abuse Through Trusted Communication Channels



Authentication


Identity theft


Malware
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 11, 2026

Kimwolf v7: An Evolution of the Kimwolf Botnet



Android APK


Ethereum


HTTP
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 10, 2026

The Permanent Threat: Analyzing Aeternum’s Blockchain-Based C2 Operations and Communications



Aeternum


Infection chain


JSON
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















