




















The Golden Scale: Notable Threat Updates and Looking Ahead
























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsHospitality Hacks and Retail Reality Checks 
 
Hospitality Hacks and Retail Reality Checks
The Golden Scale: Notable Threat Updates and Looking Ahead


  5  min read              


Related ProductsUnit 42 Incident Response 








By:Matt Brady 

Published:October 20, 2025 Categories:Hospitality Hacks and Retail Reality ChecksInsights
 Tags:Bling LibraExtortionLapsus$Leak siteMuddled LibraScattered SpiderTelegram
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











We recently published an Insights piece “The Golden Scale: Bling Libra and the Evolving Extortion Economy,” which primarily focused on the Salesforce data theft extortion activity. This was associated with the cybercriminal syndicate known as Scattered LAPSUS$ Hunters. Since early October 2025, we have observed several notable developments within a Telegram channel (SLSH 6.0 part 3) used by the threat actors. This activity may provide a glimpse into how the group plans to operate in the foreseeable future. We’re providing these insights so that organizations can better prepare for and defend against this evolving threat activity.
Fallout From the Extortion Deadline
As noted in our previous Insights piece, Scattered LAPSUS$ Hunters listed the deadline for impacted organizations to make a ransom payment as 11:59 PM ET on Oct. 10, 2025. Since that time, news reports have indicated that the threat actors have leaked stolen data allegedly belonging to six companies. These companies operate across the aviation, energy and retail sectors. The leaked data allegedly includes various types of personally identifiable information (PII) such as names, dates of birth, email addresses, phone numbers and frequent flyer numbers.
Unit 42 recently tried to access the data leak site (DLS) associated with the threat actors, and noticed the website had what appeared to be a defacement message posted (see Figure 1). As a result, we were unable to determine if any victim data was still listed.
Figure 1. Screenshot of message posted to Bling Libra’s latest DLS as of Oct. 17, 2025. Source: Scattered LAPSUS$ Hunters' DLS.
On Oct. 11, 2025, a day after the posted deadline and the release of data for the six organizations referenced above, the threat actors stated that “nothing else will be leaked.” The meaning of “the things we have cannot be leaked for obvious reasons” is unclear (see Figure 2). These “obvious reasons” could mean increased attention and action from law enforcement due to who owns the data or its type.
Figure 2. Screenshot of Telegram post to SLSH 6.0 part 3 channel on Oct. 11, 2025. Source: Telegram.
As shown below in Figure 3, the threat actors appear to potentially be stepping away from any activities until the beginning of next year. A post after this one states “I promise you, you WILL feel our wrath.”
Figure 3. Screenshot of Telegram post to SLSH 6.0 part 3 channel on Oct. 11, 2025. Source: Telegram.
Extortion-as-a-Service Program Advertisement
On Oct. 10, 2025, shortly prior to their self-imposed deadline, the threat actors formally alluded to the launch of their extortion-as-a-service (EaaS) program as shown in Figure 4. They claim this EaaS program will be similar to a typical ransomware-as-a-service (RaaS) program with a clear difference: no file encryption. As noted in my previous Insights piece, one likely factor for this shift is to potentially fly under the radar of law enforcement attention. This could be motivated by their focus on disrupting ransomware operations in recent years.
Figure 4. Screenshot of Telegram post to SLSH 6.0 part 3 channel on Oct. 10, 2025. Source: Telegram.
Renewed Insider Access Recruitment
On Oct. 5, 2025, the threat actors posted an advertisement seeking insider access at organizations across a variety of industries, as seen in Figure 5.
As also noted by ReliaQuest on their X account, the threat actors state their primary interest is in acquiring access to call centers, gaming companies, hosting providers, software-as-a-service (SaaS) and telecom organizations. These organizations would be based in countries such as the U.S., UK, Australia, Canada and France.
Figure 5. Screenshot of Telegram post to SLSH 6.0 part 3 channel on Oct. 5, 2025 Source: Telegram.
Threat actors affiliated with “The Com” have previously advertised interest in partnering with insiders at targets of interest to them. This was reported in our May 2025 update on Muddled Libra (aka Scattered Spider).
Potential Emergence of New Ransomware
On Oct. 4, 2025, the threat actors claimed to be developing a new form of ransomware named “SHINYSP1D3R” as noted in Figures 6 and 7. These posts appear to be related to observations previously noted by Falconfeeds in August 2025. It is currently unclear if the aforementioned ransomware is still under development or simply a false claim.
Figure 6. Screenshot of Telegram posts to SLSH 6.0 part 3 channel on Oct. 4, 2025. Source: Telegram.
Figure 7. Screenshot of Telegram posts to SLSH 6.0 part 3 channel on Oct. 4, 2025. Source: Telegram.
What Comes Next — and What I Recommend You Do
Given that the clearnet version of Scattered LAPSUS$ Hunters’ newly launched DLS is unavailable at this time, it is unclear if any of the victims listed on the site made a ransom payment to the threat actors.
Additionally, it remains relatively uncertain if the EaaS program advertised by the threat actors will be as lucrative of a business model as they likely hoped it would be. Given that the advertisement specifically cites the removal of any file encryption in comparison to a traditional RaaS program, organizations may be less willing to make a ransom payment considering the potential lack of operational disruption.
Finally, it is not evident why the threat actors would potentially be interested in operating both an EaaS and a RaaS program, other than attempting to diversify their revenue streams. This is certainly something Unit 42 will continue to monitor going forward.
As noted in our previous Insights piece, the theft and leakage of PII, including loyalty program details (e.g., frequent flyer numbers) from some victim organizations (specifically those in hospitality) could enable cybercriminals to conduct identity theft and other types of fraud, including fueling the growth of fraudulent travel agencies advertised across underground cybercrime forums and Telegram channels.
Given the rise of RaaS programs in recent years, many organizations have developed incident response playbooks specifically to prepare for a ransomware event in terms of operational disruption. I believe it is now time for organizations to create similar playbooks for the growing threat of EaaS programs, specifically to prepare for the reputational risks associated with such events. This should include having third-party experts on standby via retainer to assist with potential negotiations, verification of stolen data and other related actions.
If your organization has been threatened with data theft extortion by Scattered Lapsus$ Hunters or other cybercriminals, the Unit 42 Incident Response team is here and ready to support with either a suspected compromise or to reduce the risk via a proactive threat assessment.


Back to top

TagsBling LibraExtortionLapsus$Leak siteMuddled LibraScattered SpiderTelegram



Threat Research Center


Next: Threat Brief: Nation-State Actor Steals F5 Source Code and Undisclosed Vulnerabilities







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      The Permanent Threat: Analyzing Aeternum’s Blockchain-Based C2 Operations and Communications                  



                      2026 World Cup: Discussing The World’s Biggest Game’s Attack Surface                  



                      Out of the Crypt: The Evolving Cyber Extortion Economy                  









Related Hospitality Hacks and Retail Reality Checks Resources




 



Insights July 10, 2026

No Manners Here: The Ruthless Rise of The Gentlemen Ransomware



Howling Scorpius


RaaS


Spikey Scorpius
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights March 20, 2026

Who’s Really Shopping? Retail Fraud in the Age of Agentic AI



Agentic AI


E-commerce


Retail
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights November 26, 2025

The Golden Scale: 'Tis the Season for Unwanted Gifts



Bling Libra


Lapsus$


Leak site
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights October 10, 2025

The Golden Scale: Bling Libra and the Evolving Extortion Economy



Bling Libra


Extortion


Lapsus$
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 9, 2025

Data Is the New Diamond: Latest Moves by Hackers and Defenders



Muddled Libra


Bling Libra


Extortion
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 26, 2025

Data Is the New Diamond: Heists in the Digital Age



Bling Libra


Extortion


Social engineering
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















