




















Muddled Libra: Why Are We So Obsessed With You?

























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsOpinions 
 
Opinions
Muddled Libra: Why Are We So Obsessed With You?


  3  min read              


Related ProductsCortexCortex XSIAM 








By:Richard Emerson 

Published:August 6, 2025 Categories:InsightsOpinions
 Tags:DragonForceMuddled LibraScattered Spider
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Why Do We Talk So Much About Muddled Libra?
Many articles and presentations have covered the tactics, techniques and procedures of the group that Unit 42 tracks as Muddled Libra. Known for social engineering tactics, the group recently attacked organizations in industries including government, retail, insurance and aviation. There's an undeniable impact for the group’s victims, but I’ve also been pondering why this group seems to receive more media attention than other groups that also partner with Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) programs.
There are other affiliates that heavily target English-speaking countries, and that are just as fast and impactful. Reading Trend 3 of our recent 2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report, for example, there are fast attacks in incident response cases related to a variety of threat groups.
Here are some thoughts on why Muddled Libra has been a particular focus for the media:
Distinct Playbook, Industry Targeting
Even though Muddled Libra often uses publicly available tools and known techniques, their playbook is pretty consistent and their vishing is somewhat unique. This may make it easier to identify this group of hackers across cases versus other hacking teams. Muddled Libra has also attacked companies in waves by industry, which puts companies in those industries on high alert. It’s one thing to know that your organization may be attacked at any time, it’s another to know a specific threat actor is successfully targeting your peers and you may be getting attacked right now and not even know it. For other intrusions involving a RaaS affiliate, many of these groups have such similar techniques that it makes it difficult to differentiate them, and their targeting more opportunistic across industries, so there is not as coherent a story to tell.
Successful Tactics
Just looking at our cases in 2025 involving this threat actor this year, 50% of cases led to DragonForce ransomware deployment and data exfiltration, showing that Muddled Libra’s attacks are frequently successful. Granted, we don't know how many calls to Help Desks go nowhere for this group, so it may be harder to measure them against their "peers." But the urgency of requests from organizations express palpable fear of Muddled Libra, as if executives were really worried they simply could not stop this threat actor.
The Power of Language
The really differentiating factor for me for this group is the English-speaking fluency that they are able to employ. It’s not really possible to screen malicious calls and protect your help desk from ever receiving them. This may allow Muddled Libra to more surgically pick and choose which targets to go after within a victim environment. Seeing the success of this language fluency and these social engineering tactics makes me wonder what will happen as AI capabilities continue to mature. Could we see every RaaS affiliate gain the capability to act like Muddled Libra?
Studying the Group Is Key to Defending Against It
As described in our Muddled Libra Threat Assessment, we’ve seen organizations disrupt Muddled Libra through properly implementing Conditional Access Policies. There are many other recommendations that can make a difference to stopping or slowing this threat actor. For example, gathering information that can point to suspicious activities and intelligently making connections with it (with capabilities such as those of Cortex XSIAM) can help identify incidents that need a response.
Focused study of Muddled Libra and sharing information around it helps us all stay aware of the sorts of defenses that could make a difference, against this threat actor and many others. Knowing what’s worked for organizations who have successfully stopped the group can show all organizations that there is hope for defense, even against persistent and successful threat actors.


Back to top

TagsDragonForceMuddled LibraScattered Spider



Threat Research Center


Next: When Good Accounts Go Bad: Exploiting Delegated Managed Service Accounts in Active Directory







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      2026 World Cup: Discussing The World’s Biggest Game’s Attack Surface                  



                      A Peek Into Muddled Libra’s Operational Playbook                  



                      Novel Technique to Detect Cloud Threat Actor Operations                  









Related Opinions Resources




 



Insights July 16, 2026

AI, Automation and Attacks: Unpacking the Unit 42 2026 Global Incident Response Report



AI


LLM


Unit 42 Incident Response Report
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights February 3, 2026

Why Smart People Fall For Phishing Attacks



AI


Phishing
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights January 29, 2026

Understanding the Russian Cyberthreat to the 2026 Winter Olympics



AI


IoT


Russia
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights December 23, 2025

Who Does Cybersecurity Need? You!



Cybersecurity


Opinion


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights November 4, 2025

Know Ourselves Before Knowing Our Enemies: Threat Intelligence at the Expense of Asset Management



Network security


Threat intelligence
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights October 28, 2025

Bots, Bread and the Battle for the Web



AI


SEO


SEO poisoning
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 25, 2025

Insights: Telling You What We Really Think



Insights


Opinion


Threat Research Communications
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















