




















Logit-Gap Steering: A New Frontier in Understanding and Probing LLM Safety




























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsGeneral 
 
General
Logit-Gap Steering: A New Frontier in Understanding and Probing LLM Safety


  2  min read              


Related ProductsUnit 42 AI Security AssessmentUnit 42 Incident Response 








By:Tony LiHongliang Liu 

Published:August 20, 2025 Categories:GeneralInsights
 Tags:GenAILLM
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Introducing a New Angle on LLM Safety
Many publications have discussed the issues with tricking LLMs into responding to harmful requests. Our most recent academic research offers a new way to think about these issues, and it speaks to how defenders could improve LLM safety as well. The key is to consider some fundamental qualities of how safety features are built into LLM models.
LLMs are designed to refuse harmful queries through "alignment" training, a process that aims to make refusal responses far more likely than affirmative ones for unsafe prompts. A technical aspect of this process is the use of “logits,” the raw scores an LLM assigns to potential next words. Alignment training introduces refusal tokens that prevent the model from responding to harmful requests. Part of the training is to adjust the logits so they favor refusal tokens when they should.
Our Research: Logit-Gap Steering and Its Impact
Our research introduces a critical concept: the refusal-affirmation logit gap. This refers to the idea that the training process isn’t actually eliminating the potential for a harmful response – it’s just making it less likely. There remains potential for an attacker to “close the gap,” and uncover a harmful response after all.
Our academic research paper, “Logit-Gap Steering: Efficient Short-Path Suffix Jailbreaks for Aligned Large Language Models,” explores how this process would work, and how efficient it could be for attackers. Our approaches not only showcased strong jailbreak efficacy on classic open-sourced LLMs such as Qwen, LLama, and Gemma, but also worked effectively on the most recent open-sourced model from OpenAI, gpt-oss-20b, with outstanding attack success rate (>75%). The paper was posted before the release of gpt-oss-20b.
This forcefully demonstrates that relying solely on an LLM's internal alignment to prevent toxic or harmful content is an insufficient strategy. The inherent, mathematical nature of the logit gap means that determined adversaries can, and will, find ways to bypass these internal guardrails. True AI safety demands a defense-in-depth strategy, incorporating additional, external protections and content filters for a truly robust security posture.
While the paper details the process and efficacy of the approach, it also provides tools for deeper analysis. In particular, it helps conceive of how safety alignment truly operates and steps out of specifics into a model that considers the fundamental principles of alignment training – and therefore inherent issues that need to be solved. It also provides security researchers and LLM users with a quantifiable metric to evaluate and strengthen the alignment and safety of deployed models.
Building a Stronger Future for AI Safety
We hope logit-gap steering will serve both as a baseline for future jailbreak research and as a diagnostic tool for designing more robust safety architectures. We’re sharing this research to empower the entire AI and security community. By understanding these fundamental mechanisms, we can collectively develop more robust alignment techniques, refine evaluation benchmarks and ultimately build more secure AI systems. We urge researchers to delve into the full paper on arXiv (2406.11717) and contribute to our shared mission of securing an AI-driven future.
Unit 42’s AI Security Assessment can help organizations reduce AI adoption risk, secure AI innovation and strengthen AI governance. Palo Alto Networks’ PRISMA AIRS Runtime Security product offers the most comprehensive protection for your AI innovations and deployments.
Additional Resources

Logit-Gap Steering: Efficient Short-Path Suffix Jailbreaks for Aligned Large Language Models – arXiv:2506.24056



Back to top

TagsGenAILLM



Threat Research Center


Next: Fashionable Phishing Bait: GenAI on the Hook







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Perturbation Probing: A New Diagnostic for the Fragility of LLM Safety                  



                      AI, Automation and Attacks: Unpacking the Unit 42 2026 Global Incident Response Report                  



                      That AI Extension Helping You Write Emails? It’s Reading Them First                  









Related General Resources




 



Insights September 16, 2026

Atomic macOS (AMOS) Stealer Activity



MacOS


Threat intelligence


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 2, 2026

An AI-Assisted Cyber Attack: Inside a Unit 42 Investigation



Agentic AI


Frontier AI
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 28, 2026

Perturbation Probing: A New Diagnostic for the Fragility of LLM Safety



AI


Jailbreak


LLM
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 21, 2026

Connecting the Dots: Securing the Overlooked Corners of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) Supply Chain



ChainDrop


Npm packages


Software supply-chain attack
 


                    Read now                    







 



High Profile Threats August 18, 2026

Threat Brief: Mitigating Large-Scale Credential Attacks (Updated August 18)



Credential theft
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 4, 2026

The Frontier AI Vulnerability Burst: Industrializing Autonomous Zero-Day Discovery in Open-Source Software



AI


Frontier AI


Vulnerability Exploitation
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights July 2, 2026

How We Added WebAuthn to a Browser-Based RDP Client



IDA Pro


Microsoft


RDP
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 12, 2026

Tracing Digital Intent: New MacOS Tahoe 26 Artifact Discovered



Digital forensics


MacOS
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 8, 2026

When “Hi, This Is IT” Comes Through Microsoft Teams



Cloaked Ursa


Identity


Phishing
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights May 28, 2026

2026 World Cup: Discussing The World’s Biggest Game’s Attack Surface



Fiddling Scorpius


Fighting Ursa


Muddled Libra
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















