




















Unit 42 Attack Surface Threat Research: Constant Change in Cloud Contributes to 45% of New High/Critical Exposures Per Month





























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 


















English





English


Japanese





  Threat Research CenterTrend ReportsCloud Cybersecurity Research 
 
Cloud Cybersecurity Research
Unit 42 Attack Surface Threat Research: Constant Change in Cloud Contributes to 45% of New High/Critical Exposures Per Month


  4  min read              


Related ProductsCortex XDRCortex XpanseCortex XSIAM 








By:Unit 42 

Published:September 14, 2023 Categories:Cloud Cybersecurity ResearchMalwareTrend Reports
 Tags:Attack surface managementCloud Infrastructure ProtectionCloud Security
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Introduction
It’s challenging to ensure proper protection for your organization in an ever-changing, vulnerable environment. In our survey of over 250 organizations, we found that 80% of security exposures are found in cloud environments and 20% of cloud services change every month. Trying to get a handle on this sort of volatility is not easy, but it is vitally important.
Our 2023 Unit 42 Attack Surface Threat Report explores the global attack surface landscape based on observable data on exposures that are publicly accessible over the internet. It also offers recommendations on how organizations should approach active attack surface management.
Key Findings From the 2023 Unit 42 Attack Surface Threat Report
Constant Change in the Cloud Creates New Risk
Unit 42 studied the composition of new and existing services running in different cloud providers used by organizations over a period of six months. Cloud-based IT infrastructure is always in a state of flux. On average, over 20% of externally accessible cloud services change monthly across the 250 organizations. Figure 1 shows how this breaks down across different industries.
Figure 1. Median proportion of changed services introduced by a typical company in a certain industry during a given month.
Consequently, Unit 42 investigated the impact on the number of new security risks introduced within an organization, which is illustrated in Figure 2. Over 45% of most organizations’ high-risk, cloud-hosted exposures in a given month were observed on new services that hadn’t been present on their organization's attack surface in the month prior. Thus, the creation of new, publicly accessible cloud services (both intended and unauthorized) is a risk factor related to nearly half of all high-criticality exposures at a given time.
Figure 2. Median proportion of high-risk cloud-hosted exposures observed on a typical company’s attack surface in each industry during a given month.
Cloud Exposures Dominate Most Organizations’ Security Risks
According to our analysis, 80% of security exposures were observed in cloud environments, as shown in Figure 3 below. This higher distribution of exposures in the cloud can be attributed to the following causes:

Frequent misconfigurations
Shared responsibilities
Shadow IT
Inherent connection to the internet
Lack of visibility into cloud assets

Figure 3. Proportion of cloud vs. on-premises security exposures.
Three Causes Account for 60% of All Exposure on the Global Attack Surface
Figure 4 shows that across the more than 250 organizations we analyzed, web framework takeover exposures like insecure versions of Apache web servers, insecure versions of PHP and insecure versions of jQuery account for over 22% of the exposures. Poorly configured remote access services like Remote Desktop Protocol (RDP), Secure Shell (SSH), or virtual network computing (VNC) make up 20% of the exposures.
Figure 4. Exposures of the global attack surface.
Unit 42 also observed that IT security and networking infrastructure exposures make up nearly 17% of all the exposures of the global attack surface. The exposures in this category consisted of internet-accessible administrative login pages of the following assets:

Routers
Firewalls
Virtual private networks (VPNs)
Other core networking and security appliances

Compromise of these assets can have substantial consequences for organizations, including the compromise of core business functions and applications, and the data they contain.
Recommendations to Actively Manage Your Attack Surface
Most organizations are unprepared for an attack through an unknown or unmanaged exposure. We found eight of the nine organizations we studied had internet-accessible RDP vulnerable to brute-force attacks for at least 25% of the month.
To protect against these types of attack surface vulnerabilities, organizations should:

Achieve continuous visibility
Maintain a comprehensive, real-time understanding of all internet-accessible assets, including cloud-based systems and services. This helps to actively discover, learn and respond to risks more quickly.
Address cloud misconfigurations
Regularly review and update cloud configurations, aligning with best practices to mitigate security risks. Foster collaboration between security and DevOps teams to secure cloud-native application development and deployment.
Prioritize remediation
Focus on addressing the most critical vulnerabilities and exposures, such as those with a high Common Vulnerability Scoring System (CVSS) score – which accounts for severity – and an Exploit Prediction Scoring System (EPSS) score – which accounts for likelihood – to reduce the chance of successful cyberattacks.

Organizations should consider an attack surface management program to continuously discover, prioritize and remediate exposures on their attack surface. This ensures that opportunistic attackers cannot exploit any unknown or unmanaged asset.
How Palo Alto Networks Can Help
Get the full 2023 Unit 42 Attack Surface Threat Report for more global attack surface insights, trends and recommendations for best practices.
If attack surface management is new to your organization, or you’d like help with improving your program, Cortex Xpanse and Unit 42 Attack Surface Assessment can jump-start your journey. This assessment service gives you better visibility into your on-premises and cloud-based internet-connected assets and recommendations on prioritized actions to help you defend your organization.
Additional Resources

Cortex Xpanse Datasheet — Palo Alto Networks
CISO’s Guide to Attack Surface Management — Palo Alto Networks
2022 Attack Surface Threat Report — Palo Alto Networks
Video: Top Attack Surface Use Case — Palo Alto Networks



Back to top

TagsAttack surface managementCloud Infrastructure ProtectionCloud Security



Threat Research Center


Next: Wireshark Tutorial: Display Filter Expressions







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Essential Data Sources for Detection Beyond the Endpoint                  



                      The Browser Defense Playbook: Stopping the Attacks That Start on Your Screen                  



                      "Shai-Hulud" Worm Compromises npm Ecosystem in Supply Chain Attack (Updated November 26)                  









Related  Resources




 



Threat Research September 29, 2026

OperTraitors: How Kubernetes Operators Betray Your Security Posture



AI


AI agents


API
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 21, 2026

From Exposure to Lockdown: How AWS Neutralizes Compromised IAM Credentials through Managed Policies



AWS


AWS CloudTrail


Bedrock
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 18, 2026

A Vault with a Heap-View: The Uncomfortable Space Between AgentCore Harness and Identity



Agentic AI


AWS


Cloud
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 16, 2026

Atomic macOS (AMOS) Stealer Activity



MacOS


Threat intelligence


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 14, 2026

Unmasking Cloud Identities: From Behavioral Clustering to Automated Detection



AWS CloudTrail


Cloud detection


DevOps
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 10, 2026

The Machine With Many Faces: Post-Exploitation Identity Misuse in SPIFFE/SPIRE



API


Cryptographic


JSON
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 9, 2026

Untracked Nightmares: The Threats Hiding Behind Commodity Infrastructure



ARKTunnel


C2


CL-CRI-1171
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research September 3, 2026

Attackers Expose Ongoing AI Tool Use Targeting Organizations in Latin America



Agentic AI


ChatGPT


CL-CRI-1131
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 31, 2026

Spring Ring: An Inside Look at Voice Phishing Campaigns in Microsoft Teams



Cloaked Ursa


Entra ID


Microsoft Teams
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research August 25, 2026

The State of AI-Enabled Malware August 2026: From Brand Abuse to Agentic Execution



Backdoor


Bitcoin


DLL hijacking
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















