




















Fracturing Software Security With Frontier AI Models

























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 


















English





German


English


French


Japanese


Korean





  Threat Research CenterInsightsGeneral 
 
General
Fracturing Software Security With Frontier AI Models


  6  min read              


Related ProductsUnit 42 AI Security AssessmentUnit 42 Frontier AI DefenseUnit 42 Incident Response 








By:Andy Piazza 

Published:April 20, 2026 Categories:GeneralInsights
 Tags:AIAttack pathData exfiltrationMalwareN-dayOpen Source SoftwareZero-day
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Introduction
Unit 42 recently got hands-on with frontier AI models, and our initial findings indicate a major shift in the speed, scale and capability of AI models to identify software vulnerabilities. We are now seeing the first frontier models to demonstrate the autonomous reasoning required to function not merely as a coding assistant, but as a full-spectrum security researcher. This brings worrisome advancements in:

Autonomous zero-day discovery
Collapsing the patching window for N-days
Advanced chaining of complex exploitation paths
Real-time adaptation to bypass controls of hardened environments

The impact of frontier AI models on the threat landscape goes way beyond vulnerability discovery and exploitation. As these models become widely available in the near future, we are likely to see dramatic increases in the speed and scale of AI-enabled attacks across the entire attack lifecycle.
Frontier Models Exposing the Fragility of Our Software Ecosystem
As discussed at length by our colleagues at Anthropic, frontier AI models are a significant advancement in the capabilities of AI models. These models can, with minimal human expertise, identify vulnerabilities in systems and software. They can also analyze attack paths, including identifying complex exploit chains.
Our initial threat assessment is that frontier AI models will significantly increase the risk of zero-day and N-day vulnerabilities in software. They lower the barrier to entry for unskilled attackers to find complex exploit chains, while also dramatically accelerating the vulnerability discovery-to-exploitation cycle.
Open Source Software and Supply Chain Risks
Open source software (OSS) in particular may face significant risks from frontier AI models, at least in the short term. It has traditionally been considered that “given enough eyeballs, all bugs are shallow.” However, the transparency of exposing source code resulted in some striking observations in our tests of frontier AI models.
When we run them against source code, frontier AI models demonstrate a strong ability to identify vulnerabilities and complex exploit chains. When we test the models against compiled code (the executable version of code), however, we see only marginal advancements compared to publicly available AI models. Consequently, open-source software faces a greater immediate risk.
It is crucial to remember that nearly all commercial software incorporates open-source components within its compiled code.
To be clear, Unit 42 does not believe that OSS is inherently more vulnerable than commercially available software. We assess OSS has a heightened risk of being compromised due to the open nature of the software development ecosystem. This includes the availability of public source code for threat actors to rigorously test for vulnerabilities beyond the visibility of defenders, and the limited number of maintainers (and their time) for many OSS projects.
Unit 42 predicts an increase in large-scale supply chain compromises of OSS projects, similar to the recent TeamPCP supply chain attacks and North Korea’s attack on the Axios JavaScript library.
A New Frontier in AI-Enabled Attack Paths
Despite the hype cycle, we are still only beginning to see the impact of AI-enabled threats on the threat landscape. Yes, we have seen incredible gains in the speed and scale of attacks leveraging AI in multiple cases and through security researcher testing. To date, these incidents still represent a very small percentage of the overall threat activity Unit 42 tracks.
That said, threat actors continue to invest in AI research and testing capabilities. As we noted in our threat research into a few AI-related malware samples, we see threat actors testing AI for:

Writing malware
Remote decision making (e.g. augmenting or replacing a C2 operator)
Local decision making (e.g. locally executed agentic attack flows)

With only a few notable exceptions, such as Anthropic’s reporting on GTG-1002 AI-enabled attacks against approximately 30 organizations and Amazon’s reporting on threat actors targeting edge devices at scale, the world has yet to see massive adoption of AI in large-scale campaigns.
With the advancements and public release of frontier AI models, Unit 42 believes the threat landscape is likely to see the rapid increase in speed, scale and sophistication of cyberattacks that we have warned about. Most critically, we don’t need to teach frontier AI models how to hack. They already know how to do it and can do it autonomously.
We will illustrate a few areas where we believe we will see advanced usage of AI using a common attack path. In this case, we will apply the thought experiment to spear phishing leading to data exfiltration for extortion:

Reconnaissance: An attacker leverages frontier models to rapidly scrape the internet for targeting intelligence. This includes:

Identifying key leaders and their contact information via press releases, LinkedIn and corporate websites
Identifying software used in the environment via job postings, press releases for partnering agreements
Finding other available information to inform the large language model (LLM) to write well crafted spear-phishing emails, texts or audio scripts for social engineering attacks


Initial access: A human reviews the reconnaissance data and the draft phishing emails and sends them to targets with malware attached. An AI agent on the command-and-control (C2) server waits for the malware to check in after initial delivery.
Lateral movement and discovery: A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server autonomously instructs the installed malware to:

Scan inside the network
Map what it can see
Identify running software versions
Gather exposed credentials on endpoints and in databases
Move laterally across devices collecting sensitive data as it goes



The agent automatically tests each set of credentials as they are discovered, enumerates their privileges and tracks success/failure statistics automatically.

Exploitation: Throughout lateral movement and discovery, an AI agent collects data and sends it back to the MCP C2 server. The agent analyzes the running services and applications, identifies vulnerabilities, writes custom exploit code and passes the exploit back to the onsite malware. The malware executes autonomously to continue its progress with privilege escalation, defense evasion and lateral movement across network segments.
Exfiltration and documentation: The collected data is returned to an MCP server and dropped into a datastore. It is then analyzed by an LLM to automatically provide a summary of key findings to the human operator. These findings include an assessment of the value of the stolen dataset based on the operator’s intended use of the data.

Figure 1 illustrates the complete attack path.
Figure 1. AI-enabled attack path.
It should be clear that we do not currently expect to see entirely new attack techniques created by AI. Rather, we see AI enabling attacks to move faster, autonomously and against multiple targets simultaneously.
It is the speed and scale of AI-enabled attacks that we need to prepare for as defenders, not completely unknown techniques.
We know how cyberattacks are carried out. We know the forensic evidence they leave behind. We need to shift to hardened environments that are designed for prevention and rapid response.
What Security Teams Should Do Right Now
Unit 42 recommends a thorough review of your current security policies to adopt an aggressive prevention and response mindset. Mitigations that rely on active monitoring and response prior to containment will be outpaced by AI-assisted adversaries.

Operate under assumed breach conditions: Extend endpoint protection capabilities across all environments, preventing by default and monitoring at a minimum.
Establish code visibility and governance: Strictly manage and track the origin sources of OSS and assume package registries are no longer safe. Create a software bill of materials (SBOM) for all software to enable rapid identification and patching of integrated code libraries. Implement version pinning, hash checking and cooling-off periods for updates.
Harden development and build ecosystems: Restrict build systems from reaching the internet. Adopt secure vaults for developer secrets. Aggressively scan build environment and production networks for exposed secrets.
Collapse the patching window: Transition from routine maintenance to urgent, "time-to-deploy" enforcement. Use auto-updates and out-of-band releases to counter the AI-accelerated N-day threat.
Automate incident response pipelines: Deploy AI models to triage alerts, summarize technical events and conduct proactive threat hunts. Manual triage cannot scale to the volume of bugs a frontier AI model can discover.
Refresh vulnerability disclosure policies (VDPs): Prepare for an unprecedented volume of bug reports. Organizations must have automated workflows to ingest, validate and prioritize vulnerabilities.
Prioritize hard architectural barriers: Shift toward memory-safe languages and hardware-level isolation.

Conclusion
We are entering a period of significant volatility in the cybersecurity landscape. In the short term, the proliferation of frontier AI models capabilities risks empowering adversaries to exploit zero-days and N-days at an unprecedented scale. We are talking about N-hours instead of N-days. It is also likely to enable attackers to move at greater scale, sophistication and speed than ever before. However, this is just a transition period as defenders adapt to the new speed and scale of AI-enabled threats.
The ultimate goal of this transitory period is a future where defensive capabilities dominate, and where AI models are used to identify and fix bugs faster and earlier than threat actors. Unit 42 is committed to ensuring that defenders remain ahead of threat actors. We will continue to aggressively hunt, analyze and report threat intelligence to enable defenders.
Watch our live threat briefing from Thursday, April 16, as Sam Rubin, SVP, Consulting and Threat Intelligence, Unit 42, and Marc Benoit, CISO, Palo Alto Networks discuss how frontier AI models find and exploit previously undetected exposures at machine scale and speed, and share practical steps security leaders need to take now to adapt their defenses to avoid business disruption. Watch now.
Additional Resources

Weaponized Intelligence – Nikesh Arora, Palo Alto Networks 
Defender's Guide to the Frontier AI Impact on Cybersecurity – Lee Klarich, Palo Alto Networks  
Introducing Unit 42 Frontier AI Defense – Sam Rubin, Palo Alto Networks  
Reclaim the AI Advantage – Unit 42, Palo Alto Networks 
Unit 42 Breaking Insights: Combat Risks from Frontier AI Models – On Demand Threat Briefing, Unit 42 
Assessing Claude Mythos Preview’s cybersecurity capabilities – Frontier Team Red, Anthropic 
Project Glasswing: Securing critical software for the AI era – Anthropic 



Back to top

TagsAIAttack pathData exfiltrationMalwareN-dayOpen Source SoftwareZero-day



Threat Research Center


Next: Threat Brief: Escalation of Cyber Risk Related to Iran (Updated April 17)







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Threat Brief: NetScaler Zero Days CVE-2026-88771 and CVE-2026-88772 Exploited in the Wild (Updated September 30)                  



                      OperTraitors: How Kubernetes Operators Betray Your Security Posture                  



                      3 Consulting Myths Debunked by Unit 42 Experts                  









Related General Resources




 



Insights September 16, 2026

Atomic macOS (AMOS) Stealer Activity



MacOS


Threat intelligence


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 2, 2026

An AI-Assisted Cyber Attack: Inside a Unit 42 Investigation



Agentic AI


Frontier AI
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 28, 2026

Perturbation Probing: A New Diagnostic for the Fragility of LLM Safety



AI


Jailbreak


LLM
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 21, 2026

Connecting the Dots: Securing the Overlooked Corners of the Software Development Lifecycle (SDLC) Supply Chain



ChainDrop


Npm packages


Software supply-chain attack
 


                    Read now                    







 



High Profile Threats August 18, 2026

Threat Brief: Mitigating Large-Scale Credential Attacks (Updated August 18)



Credential theft
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 4, 2026

The Frontier AI Vulnerability Burst: Industrializing Autonomous Zero-Day Discovery in Open-Source Software



AI


Frontier AI


Vulnerability Exploitation
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights July 2, 2026

How We Added WebAuthn to a Browser-Based RDP Client



IDA Pro


Microsoft


RDP
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 12, 2026

Tracing Digital Intent: New MacOS Tahoe 26 Artifact Discovered



Digital forensics


MacOS
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights June 8, 2026

When “Hi, This Is IT” Comes Through Microsoft Teams



Cloaked Ursa


Identity


Phishing
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights May 28, 2026

2026 World Cup: Discussing The World’s Biggest Game’s Attack Surface



Fiddling Scorpius


Fighting Ursa


Muddled Libra
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















