




















Insights: Telling You What We Really Think

























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsOpinions 
 
Opinions
Insights: Telling You What We Really Think


  2  min read              











By:Erica Naone 

Published:August 25, 2025 Categories:InsightsOpinions
 Tags:InsightsOpinionThreat Research Communications
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Hear More Directly From Researchers and Consultants
You may have noticed a new type of article on the Unit 42 site, with a different sort of headline and a different style of writing. These are part of a section we’re calling “Insights.” It’s designed to put you more directly in touch with Unit 42 researchers and consultants, so you can read unvarnished thoughts on the threat landscape and what we’re seeing in real-world incident response cases.
How Are Insights Different?
I started working on Unit 42 threat research publications in 2020 and I am incredibly proud of the threat research we share with the community. Every piece that we publish is extensively reviewed by internal subject matter experts and experienced editors. It warms my heart whenever I hear that our readers appreciate the quality and integrity of our publications. I often compare our work to an academic journal to help researchers understand the nature of what they’re undertaking when they decide to publish an article through us.
But while I stand by the value of this approach, it doesn’t work for everything. Our team wanted to share a view of the process that’s perhaps messier but equally important. These are early thoughts, quick observations, theories about the threat landscape, or the conversation a consultant has over and over with clients. There’s also information about how we do our work, how we found ourselves in cybersecurity, and where we see the field going. I hope pieces like this give you a more immediate view of what we’re seeing and thinking about.
Beyond the Threat Assessment: What We Learned While Writing
We have recently published two pieces on Muddled Libra: “Why Are We So Obsessed With You?” and “Amalgamated Evil.”
People who have worked with me know what a departure this is. My normal guidance is “straightforward and accurate.” I’m also known for saying, “Boring can be good.” This is because I believe that when sharing, say, indicators of compromise, the goal is to inform, not entertain, and I never want to create any barriers to understanding the key information.
That said, once the foundation is in place, there’s space for the conversation you might have over a cup of coffee.
Unit 42 has done a lot of research on Muddled Libra and responded to a lot of cases. You can read our formal summary of what we know in our Muddled Libra Threat Assessment. In the course of putting together our last update to the threat assessment, however, I noticed how interested I was reading the comments from our experts as we edited and debated.
That turned out to be the foundation of our two Muddled Libra Insights pieces so far. These aren’t meant to be summations of everything we know about the threat actor. Instead, they’re things two smart people have to say about Muddled Libra based on their expert view.
Get More Insights
I hope you enjoy reading Insights as much as I have so far. I expect the section to evolve as we put together more pieces and hear from you on social and at events – and I personally can’t wait to see how it develops.
Continue to catch up on Insights on the dedicated landing page. And if you’d ever like to know what these smart people would have to say about your specific situation… you know where to find us.




Back to top

TagsInsightsOpinionThreat Research Communications



Threat Research Center


Next: Your Connection, Their Cash: Threat Actors Misuse SDKs to Sell Your Bandwidth







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      Who Does Cybersecurity Need? You!                  









Related Opinions Resources




 



Insights July 16, 2026

AI, Automation and Attacks: Unpacking the Unit 42 2026 Global Incident Response Report



AI


LLM


Unit 42 Incident Response Report
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights February 3, 2026

Why Smart People Fall For Phishing Attacks



AI


Phishing
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights January 29, 2026

Understanding the Russian Cyberthreat to the 2026 Winter Olympics



AI


IoT


Russia
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights December 23, 2025

Who Does Cybersecurity Need? You!



Cybersecurity


Opinion


Unit 42
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights November 4, 2025

Know Ourselves Before Knowing Our Enemies: Threat Intelligence at the Expense of Asset Management



Network security


Threat intelligence
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights October 28, 2025

Bots, Bread and the Battle for the Web



AI


SEO


SEO poisoning
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 6, 2025

Muddled Libra: Why Are We So Obsessed With You?



Muddled Libra


Scattered Spider


DragonForce
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















