




















Extortion and Ransomware Trends January-March 2025

































































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 


















English





English


Japanese





  Threat Research CenterTrend ReportsRansomware 
 
Ransomware
Extortion and Ransomware Trends January-March 2025


  9  min read              


Related ProductsAdvanced DNS SecurityAdvanced Threat PreventionAdvanced URL FilteringAdvanced WildFireCloud-Delivered Security ServicesCortexCortex XDRCortex XpanseNext-Generation FirewallUnit 42 Incident ResponseUnit 42 Ransomware Readiness Assessment 








By:Unit 42 

Published:April 23, 2025 Categories:Business Email CompromiseCybercrimeRansomwareThreat Actor GroupsThreat ResearchTrend Reports
 Tags:AIAkira ransomwareBianLianBitter ScorpiusBling LibraCL0PDPRKFiddling ScorpiusINC ransomwareJumpy PiscesLynx ransomwareMedusa ransomwareMuddled LibraQilinRansomHubShinyHunters
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Executive Summary
Unit 42 regularly monitors the cyberthreat landscape, including trends in extortion and ransomware. Ransomware actors continue to evolve to increase the effectiveness of their attacks and the likelihood that organizations will pay what is demanded. In our 2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report, we found that 86% of incidents involved business disruption, spanning operational downtime, reputational damage or both.
In this survey of recent trends, we share qualitative observations based on incident response cases and the broader threat landscape. These include:

Threat actors claiming compromises that can’t be substantiated
Nation-state actors working with ransomware actors
Use of tools to disable endpoint security sensors
Attacks on more types of systems, including cloud
Insider threats leading to extortion

We also share insights about public reports of ransomware compromises posted on threat actors’ leak sites. This includes:

The most active ransomware leak sites
Activity by month
Activity by country
Industries most affected by ransomware

Palo Alto Networks customers are better protected from ransomware threats through our Network Security solutions and Cortex line of products.
Unit 42 can help organizations proactively prepare to mitigate the threat of ransomware through our Ransomware Readiness Assessment.
If you think you might have been compromised or have an urgent matter, contact the Unit 42 Incident Response team.



Related Unit 42 Topics
Ransomware, Cybercrime



Incident Response Trends: Ransomware and Extortion Highlights
Unit 42 responds to many ransomware and extortion incidents every year.
As organizations are becoming more security-savvy, they are catching attacks in the early stages. This means we have seen a rise in investigations that stop at network intrusion, before attackers have a chance to succeed at their other objectives. However, we still see a large number of successful ransomware and extortion attacks. We have also seen threat actors becoming more aggressive to gain victims’ attention and command consistent and higher payments. For more details about these observations, please see our 2025 Global Incident Response Report.
Here are some of our key recent observations of ransomware and extortion campaigns.
Attackers Lie
Unit 42 has tracked various extortion campaigns where the attackers exaggerated threats of leaking data (often using old or fake data) to pressure victims into making payments.
In a March 2025 campaign, scammers physically mailed threatening letters to executives claiming to be a known ransomware group preparing to leak sensitive data. An example of one of the letters used in the campaign is in Figure 1.
Figure 1. Envelope for fake BianLian ransom note. Source: Bleeping Computer.
However, the letters’ recipients had no other evidence of a breach. These letters claimed to be the threat actor we track as Bitter Scorpius, publicly known as BianLian. However, we currently have no evidence confirming this is actually BianLian (moreover, the FBI assessed this to be a scam).
We also saw multiple cases of a threat actor posing as a rebrand of the notorious Babuk group. This threat actor used data from older, already resolved extortion campaigns to attempt to re-extort more than 60 victims.
Nation-state Actors Are Working With Ransomware Actors
In October 2024, Unit 42 published observations of a nation-state actor directly collaborating with a ransomware group. We identified Jumpy Pisces, a North Korean state-sponsored threat group associated with the Reconnaissance General Bureau of the Korean People's Army, as a key player in a ransomware incident. This change marked our first observed instance of the group using existing ransomware infrastructure. It was potentially acting as an initial access broker (IAB) or an affiliate of Fiddling Scorpius, which distributes Play ransomware.
Since that time, we have seen additional artifacts of North Korean actors (already notorious for large money theft) continuing to cooperate with ransomware groups, signaling a new trend in the cybercriminal threat landscape.
In March 2025, a North Korean hacking group tracked as Moonstone Sleet reportedly deployed Qilin ransomware payloads in a limited number of attacks.
Ransomware Actors Are Using Tools to Disable Endpoint Security Sensors
Ransomware actors continue to evolve their capabilities, and we’ve recently observed them using tools known as “EDR killers.” These tools are designed specifically to terminate defensive software, making it easier for attackers to encrypt vast amounts of data before anyone notices.
Their success has sparked interest in the affiliate community, leading to rapid adoption. The integration of these tools has become more common, making them a favored asset in an affiliate’s toolkit.
In one extortion incident that Unit 42 investigated, we observed an attacker unsuccessfully attempt to use an AV/EDR bypass tool to get around Cortex XDR. In this particular case, our incident responders were able to turn the tables by using the threat actors’ attempts to gain a certain level of access to their rogue systems. In the process, we gained visibility into the threat actor’s tooling, targeting and persona. The attack chain from this incident is presented in Figure 2.
Figure 2. High-level chain of events in the attack investigated by Unit 42.
Outside of this ideal outcome, organizations should be on the lookout for EDR killers.
Ransomware Actors Are Attacking More Types of Systems, Including Cloud
Extortion attacks continue to evolve to impact more data in victim networks. Actors are now targeting critical servers and applications, including those running on virtualized infrastructure and in the cloud.
We are also seeing more ransomware payloads that can be ported to run on more than just Windows – Linux, hypervisors (ESXi) and even macOS.
Cybercriminals such as Bling Libra (distributors of ShinyHunters ransomware) and Muddled Libra gain access to cloud environments by exploiting misconfigurations and finding exposed credentials.
Insider Threats Can Lead to Extortion
Since 2023, Unit 42 has tracked North Korea state-sponsored threat actors who gain unauthorized remote employment with worldwide organizations. These actors often use fake AI-enhanced identities to infiltrate organizations.
Circumventing sanctions to work and gain money is one part of the scheme. Alongside that are security and legal risks, including the possibility of extortion [PDF].
After being discovered on company networks, North Korean IT workers have extorted victims by holding stolen proprietary data and code hostage until the companies meet ransom demands. In some instances, North Korean IT workers have publicly released victim companies' proprietary code. North Korean IT workers have copied company code repositories, such as GitHub, to their own user profiles and personal cloud accounts. While not uncommon among software developers, this activity represents a large-scale risk of theft of company code.
In multiple instances, the conspirators supplemented their employment earnings by stealing sensitive company information, such as proprietary source code, and then threatening to leak such information unless the employer made an extortion payment.
Reported Ransomware Compromises: Charts and Stats
Unit 42 monitors public reports of ransomware compromises posted on threat actors’ leak sites. The charts and insights below are based on our observations from January-March 2025. They cover the ransomware groups that created the highest numbers of public posts about compromises, as well as information on reported compromises by month, country and industry.
However, no collection of publicly reported compromises ever reflects all compromises. In addition, the data shared below does not reflect all leak site posts. We’ve included only data that has been vetted according to established analytic standards. It’s also always important to note that threat actor groups may not report compromises honestly.
Figure 3. Most active ransomware leak sites from January-March 2025.
RansomHub is the most prolific type of ransomware among public reports on leak sites from January-March 2025, as seen in Figure 3. Unit 42 tracks the group that distributes RansomHub as Spoiled Scorpius. In our ransomware retrospective published in August 2024, we listed RansomHub as an emerging ransomware to watch. While extremely active since it started in 2024, we expect a drop in RansomHub activity during the next quarter due to operational issues this group has endured in April 2025
Figure 4. Leak site posts from all ransomware families per month.
Ransomware activity tends to fluctuate seasonally, making it important, for example, to compare activity to the same quarter of the previous year, rather than the most recent quarter. This helps account for changes that can occur due to travel seasons, annual holidays and other recurring events.
Following this pattern, we observed similar fluctuations in leak site data in 2025, as seen in Figure 4, compared to leak site data during the previous period of January-March 2024. In particular, in both 2024 and 2025, we saw a rise of activity from January to February, followed by a slight dip in March.
Figure 5. Ransomware activity categorized by the country in which the victim organization is headquartered.
While the vast majority of organizations publicly impacted by ransomware in January-March 2025 are headquartered in the United States, as seen in Figure 5, this may not paint the full picture of the impact of ransomware attacks. Since many large organizations have offices in countries besides where they are headquartered, a ransomware attack could affect organizations, employees or customers in multiple parts of the world.
With that caveat, we have consistently seen the United States at the top of this list for the years we’ve tracked leak sites. After the United States, commonly impacted organizations are headquartered in Canada, the United Kingdom and Germany, though the specific order can change.
Figure 6. Leak site posts January-March 2025 per industry.
Many ransomware attacks are opportunistic, with threat actors focusing on organizations they can compromise and where they will make the most money. That said, interesting patterns can emerge in affected industries.
For example, in the first half of 2024, the healthcare industry was the second most impacted, driven in part by prominent compromises of organizations in that vertical. However, when looking at data over the past several years, healthcare more commonly occupies the fifth or sixth most impacted spot, as seen above in Figure 6.
For the past several years, manufacturing has topped the list of most impacted industries. This may be in part due to features of the industry, such as the common use of specialized software that is difficult to update, combined with the immediate financial impact of downtime.
Conclusion
Unit 42 continues to monitor ransomware threats, through incident response cases, observation of dark web leak sites and other sources of telemetry. Ransomware remains a significant and evolving threat, especially as threat actors continue to evolve more ways of gaining access. The involvement of nation-state groups, combined with low barriers to entry for ransomware affiliates, means that cybercriminals at all skill levels may get involved with ransomware.
Organizations should stay aware of trends in ransomware and employ a defense-in-depth strategy for protection. While it is important to maintain backups, organizations should be prepared for ransomware actors to apply other forms of pressure (such as reputational pressure) to force a ransom payment even if the organization has not lost access to data. For more about Unit 42’s recent observations of ransomware trends, please read the 2025 Global Incident Response Report.
Palo Alto Networks Protection and Mitigation
Palo Alto Networks customers are better protected from ransomware threats through Network Security solutions and the Cortex line of products.
The Next-Generation Firewall with Cloud-Delivered Security Services includes the following capabilities:

Advanced URL Filtering and Advanced DNS Security can block malicious URLs and domains associated with ransomware.
Advanced Threat Prevention can block ransomware threats at both the network and application layers, including port scans, buffer overflows and remote code execution.

Our Cortex protections include Cortex Xpanse, which detects vulnerable services exposed directly to the internet that might be exploitable and infected by ransomware.
Through Cortex XDR and XSIAM, all known ransomware samples are prevented by the XDR agent out of the box using the following endpoint protection modules:

The Anti-Ransomware module helps prevent encryption behaviors on systems running Microsoft Windows or macOS.
The Local Analysis module helps detect ransomware binaries on Windows, macOS and Linux.
XDR also includes protection capabilities like Behavioral Threat Protection (BTP) which helps prevent ransomware activity on Windows, macOS and Linux.
Palo Alto Networks’ Cloud Security Agent (CSA) leverages XSIAM to provide cloud based detection and monitoring capabilities to both Cortex and Prisma Cloud cloud agents.

Our cloud-based security solutions also help protect virtual machines running in cloud environments.
We frequently update machine learning models and analysis techniques in Advanced WildFire with information discovered from our day-to-day research on ransomware.
Unit 42 can help organizations proactively prepare to mitigate the threat of ransomware through our Ransomware Readiness Assessment.
If you think you may have been compromised or have an urgent matter, get in touch with the Unit 42 Incident Response team or call:

North America: Toll Free: +1 (866) 486-4842 (866.4.UNIT42)
UK: +44.20.3743.3660
Europe and Middle East: +31.20.299.3130
Asia: +65.6983.8730
Japan: +81.50.1790.0200
Australia: +61.2.4062.7950
India: 00080005045107

Palo Alto Networks has shared these findings with our fellow Cyber Threat Alliance (CTA) members. CTA members use this intelligence to rapidly deploy protections to their customers and to systematically disrupt malicious cyber actors. Learn more about the Cyber Threat Alliance.
Additional Resources

2025 Unit 42 Global Incident Response Report – Unit 42, Palo Alto Networks
Ransomware Review: First Half of 2024 – Unit 42, Palo Alto Networks



Back to top

TagsAIAkira ransomwareBianLianBitter ScorpiusBling LibraCL0PDPRKFiddling ScorpiusINC ransomwareJumpy PiscesLynx ransomwareMedusa ransomwareMuddled LibraQilinRansomHubShinyHunters



Threat Research Center


Next: False Face: Unit 42 Demonstrates the Alarming Ease of Synthetic Identity Creation







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      OperTraitors: How Kubernetes Operators Betray Your Security Posture                  



                      3 Consulting Myths Debunked by Unit 42 Experts                  



                      Inside the Modern SOC: Defending the Cross-Environment Pivot                  









Related  Resources




 



Threat Research July 23, 2026

Russian Global Webmail Espionage



CL-STA-1114


JavaScript


Javascript injection
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights May 28, 2026

2026 World Cup: Discussing The World’s Biggest Game’s Attack Surface



Fiddling Scorpius


Fighting Ursa


Muddled Libra
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights May 27, 2026

Out of the Crypt: The Evolving Cyber Extortion Economy



Bling Libra


Extortion


Frontier AI
 


                    Read now                    







 



High Profile Threats April 17, 2026

Threat Brief: Escalation of Cyber Risk Related to Iran (Updated April 17)



APK


DDoS attacks


GenAI
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research March 16, 2026

Boggy Serpens Threat Assessment



Advanced Persistent Threat


Boggy Serpens


C2
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Actor Groups February 10, 2026

A Peek Into Muddled Libra’s Operational Playbook



Muddled Libra


PowerShell


Scattered Spider
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights February 3, 2026

Why Smart People Fall For Phishing Attacks



AI


Phishing
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights January 29, 2026

Understanding the Russian Cyberthreat to the 2026 Winter Olympics



AI


IoT


Russia
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research December 17, 2025

From Linear to Complex: An Upgrade in RansomHouse Encryption



ESXi


Jolly Scorpius


RansomHouse
 


                    Read now                    







 



Threat Research December 10, 2025

01flip: Multi-Platform Ransomware Written in Rust



Bitcoin


CL-CRI-103


Cryptocurrency
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















