




















No Manners Here: The Ruthless Rise of The Gentlemen Ransomware
























































 



































Menu






Tools
ATOMs
Security Consulting
About Us
Under Attack?
 
















  Threat Research CenterInsightsHospitality Hacks and Retail Reality Checks 
 
Hospitality Hacks and Retail Reality Checks
No Manners Here: The Ruthless Rise of The Gentlemen Ransomware


  5  min read              


Related ProductsUnit 42 Incident Response 








By:Matt Brady 

Published:July 10, 2026 Categories:Hospitality Hacks and Retail Reality ChecksInsights
 Tags:Howling ScorpiusRaaSSpikey Scorpius
 


 
 


Share

 


 


 


 


 


 


 


 











Executive Summary
The Gentlemen (aka Storm-2697) is a Ransomware-as-a-Service (RaaS) program active since at least July 2025. Public reporting indicates that the operators were likely active months earlier as an affiliate (known as ArmCorp) of Qilin RaaS, which Unit 42 tracks as Spikey Scorpius. Their ransomware variants are written in both C and Go programming languages, enabling the threat actors to spread their encryptors across different operating systems and virtual infrastructure. Figure 1 below illustrates the desktop wallpaper used by the ransomware after deployment.
Figure 1. Image of The Gentlemen ransomware’s wallpaper. Source: Krebs on Security.
Additional public reporting revealed that the operators (roughly 20 of them) likely morphed from a private entity into a RaaS model on or about September 2025. While traditional RaaS models typically offer affiliates a 70% to 80% cut of paid ransoms, The Gentlemen offer an unprecedented 90% payout.
Background
Unit 42 and other security researchers have observed The Gentlemen’s usage of a wide variety of initial access techniques similar to other RaaS operators since their inception, including the exploitation of vulnerabilities in edge devices (firewalls, VPNs), brute force attacks, obtaining leaked and/or stolen credentials and collaborating with initial access brokers (IABs).
More recently, researchers have identified The Gentlemen’s usage of a custom Go-based backdoor, an EDR killer framework dubbed “GentleKiller” and the suspected usage of an unspecified zero-day vulnerability exploit to amplify their defense evasion capabilities.
In May 2026, The Gentlemen announced a partnership with HasanBroker's BreachForums as a means to recruit affiliates, penetration testers and IABs. Figure 2 illustrates this announcement.
Figure 2. Image of partnership announcement between BreachForums and The Gentlemen. Source: Gurucul.
Additional information about The Gentlemen and their operational structure has emerged in recent months, following the leak of an internal database by an alleged insider in May 2026.
Data Leak Site Insights
One of the most alarming trends observed thus far in 2026 by Unit 42 and other security researchers is the sheer increase in volume of total victims claimed by The Gentlemen in comparison to 2025. Through July 7, one reputable source had counted a total of 580 victims claimed by The Gentlemen across 77 countries since their inception. Of those 580 victims, 103 operated within the manufacturing industry, a commonly targeted sector given the need for organizations to maintain operational uptime.
Figure 3 below represents the total number of victims claimed by The Gentlemen in 2025 compared to both Qilin and Akira, tracked by Unit 42 as Howling Scorpius, which led all RaaS programs in victims claimed last year.
Figure 3. Chart depicting total victims claimed by prominent RaaS programs in 2025. Source: Unit 42.
In comparison to the above statistics, Figure 4 below represents the total number of victims claimed by The Gentlemen thus far in 2026 (through July 3) compared to both Qilin and Akira.
Figure 4. Chart depicting total victims claimed by prominent RaaS programs in 2026. Source: Unit 42.
When comparing the last six months of 2025 to the first six months of 2026, the number of victims claimed by The Gentlemen increased by slightly more than 6x. What makes this even more concerning is that these threat actors were only active for the last four months of 2025.
Figure 5 below further illustrates the victims claimed by The Gentlemen per month since August 2025, one month prior to the official launch of their RaaS model. June 2026 represented their highest number of claimed victims to date with 117, just shy of a 4x increase from January 2026.
Figure 5. Chart depicting victims claimed by The Gentlemen per month since August 2025. Source: Ransomware.live.
Conclusion
While legacy big-game hunting RaaS programs like Qilin and Akira continue to drive high volumes of victims by sticking to their established playbooks, The Gentlemen has solidified itself as the second most active RaaS program of 2026 in terms of victims. The combination of a lucrative affiliate payout structure to recruit affiliates, alongside the use of custom tooling across different phases of their attack lifecycle, make The Gentlemen a formidable threat for enterprise organizations to reckon with in the near and mid term future.
Recommendations
Initial Access:

Immediately scope for and patch the following vulnerabilities known to be exploited:

CVE-2024-55591 (Fortinet's FortiOS and FortiProxy)
CVE-2025-32433 (Erlang/OTP SSH server)
CVE-2025-33073 (Windows SMB Client)
CVE-2025-55182 (React2Shell)


Establish and maintain robust visibility into internet-facing systems and applications such as firewalls, VPNs and remote access gateways
Audit for indicators of prior exploitation of edge devices and internet-facing RDP endpoints
Establish strong security requirements for third-party dependencies and vendors, and monitor for breaches of any third-party tools or platforms

Execution:

Create immediate, high-severity SIEM alerts for the creation, deletion or execution of any scheduled task matching the string gentlemen*

Privilege Escalation:

Immediately scope for and patch the following vulnerabilities known to be exploited:

CVE-2025-7771 (ThrottleStop.sys driver)



Defense Impairment:

Enable EDR Tamper Protection and monitor for the unexpected loading of unsigned or known vulnerable drivers
Implement behavioral alerts for systems executing wevtutil to clear Security/System logs

Credential Access:

Deploy phishing-resistance multi-factor authentication (MFA) on all systems
Regularly audit and rotate credentials

Discovery:

Monitor for internal usage of tools such as Advanced IP Scanner, which the threat actors frequently use for internal network reconnaissance and mapping

Lateral Movement:

Enforce strict SMB signing, disable SMBv1 completely, and restrict lateral network movement between internal segments to contain the self-propagation mechanism
Ensure SSH is turned off on ESXi hosts by default and only enabled temporarily for explicit maintenance windows
Treat your virtualized environment as tier-0 infrastructure and restrict ESXi management interfaces to a dedicated, isolated management VLAN

Command and Control:

Monitor for anomalous outbound traffic over non-standard ports or traffic matching known SystemBC communication signatures

Impact:

Maintain and validate offline backup and recovery capabilities
Implement behavioral alerts for systems using vssadmin and wmic to delete Volume Shadow Copies



Back to top

TagsHowling ScorpiusRaaSSpikey Scorpius



Threat Research Center


Next: Vidar Stealer Unmasked: Code Signing Abuse, Go Loaders and File Inflation







Table of Contents






Related Articles



                      The Golden Scale: 'Tis the Season for Unwanted Gifts                  



                      Threat Actor Groups Tracked by Palo Alto Networks Unit 42 (Updated Aug. 1, 2025)                  



                      Threat Assessment: Howling Scorpius (Akira Ransomware)                  









Related Hospitality Hacks and Retail Reality Checks Resources




 



Insights March 20, 2026

Who’s Really Shopping? Retail Fraud in the Age of Agentic AI



Agentic AI


E-commerce


Retail
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights November 26, 2025

The Golden Scale: 'Tis the Season for Unwanted Gifts



Bling Libra


Lapsus$


Leak site
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights October 20, 2025

The Golden Scale: Notable Threat Updates and Looking Ahead



Bling Libra


Extortion


Lapsus$
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights October 10, 2025

The Golden Scale: Bling Libra and the Evolving Extortion Economy



Bling Libra


Extortion


Lapsus$
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights September 9, 2025

Data Is the New Diamond: Latest Moves by Hackers and Defenders



Muddled Libra


Bling Libra


Extortion
 


                    Read now                    







 



Insights August 26, 2025

Data Is the New Diamond: Heists in the Digital Age



Bling Libra


Extortion


Social engineering
 


                    Read now                    











 


 











 



















                                
				Get updates from Unit 42			
Peace of mind comes from staying ahead of threats. Subscribe today.










Your Email


Subscribe for email updates to all Unit 42 threat research.
By submitting this form, you agree to our Terms of Use and acknowledge our Privacy Statement.

                    This site is protected by reCAPTCHA and the Google Privacy Policy and Terms of Service apply.                            
  

Invalid captcha!
 
					Subscribe					





















Get the latest news, invites to events, and threat alerts















Enter your email now to subscribe!





Sign up 




                                
                                
                                
                                    By submitting this form, I understand my personal data will be processed in accordance with
                                        Palo Alto Networks Privacy Statement and Terms of Use.



Sign up 












Products and Services





                                    AI-Powered Network Security Platform
                                



                                    Secure AI by Design
                                



                                    Prisma AIRS
                                



                                    AI Access Security
                                



                                    Cloud Delivered Security Services
                                



                                    Advanced Threat Prevention
                                



                                    Advanced URL Filtering
                                



                                    Advanced WildFire
                                



                                    Advanced DNS Security
                                



                                    Enterprise Data Loss Prevention
                                



                                    Enterprise IoT Security
                                



                                    Medical IoT Security
                                



                                    Industrial OT Security
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    Next-Generation Firewalls
                                



                                    Hardware Firewalls
                                



                                    Software Firewalls
                                



                                    Strata Cloud Manager
                                



                                    SD-WAN for NGFW
                                



                                    PAN-OS
                                



                                    Panorama
                                



                                    Secure Access Service Edge
                                



                                    Prisma SASE
                                



                                    Application Acceleration
                                



                                    Autonomous Digital Experience Management
                                



                                    Enterprise DLP
                                



                                    Prisma Access
                                



                                    Prisma Browser
                                



                                    Prisma SD-WAN
                                



                                    Remote Browser Isolation
                                



                                    SaaS Security
                                





                                    AI-Driven Security Operations Platform
                                



                                    Cloud Security
                                



                                    Cortex Cloud
                                



                                    Application Security
                                



                                    Cloud Posture Security
                                



                                    Cloud Runtime Security
                                



                                    Prisma Cloud
                                



                                    AI-Driven SOC
                                



                                    Cortex XSIAM
                                



                                    Cortex XDR
                                



                                    Cortex XSOAR
                                



                                    Cortex Xpanse
                                



                                    Unit 42 Managed Detection & Response
                                



                                    Managed XSIAM
                                



                                    Observability
                                



                                    Cortex XCOR
                                





                                    Next-Generation Identity Security
                                



                                    Privileged Access Management
                                



                                    Identity and Access Management 
                                



                                    Endpoint Privilege Manager
                                



                                    Identity Governance
                                



                                    Workforce Password Management
                                



                                    Agentic Identities
                                



                                    Secrets Management
                                



                                    Unified Secrets Governance
                                



                                    Application Credentials Delivery
                                



                                    Vendor Privileged Access
                                



                                    Threat Intel and Incident Response Services
                                



                                    Prepare for Emerging Risks
                                



                                    Strengthen Your Defenses
                                



                                    Build Your Security Strategy
                                



                                    Understand the Adversary
                                



                                    Respond to a Cyber Attack
                                






Company





                                    About Us
                                



                                    Careers
                                



                                    Contact Us
                                



                                    Corporate Responsibility
                                



                                    Customers
                                



                                    Investor Relations
                                



                                    Location
                                



                                    Newsroom
                                






Popular Links





                                    Blog
                                



                                    Communities
                                



                                    Content Library
                                



                                    Cyberpedia
                                



                                    Event Center
                                



                                    Manage Email Preferences
                                



                                    Products A-Z
                                



                                    Product Certifications
                                



                                    Report a Vulnerability
                                



                                    Sitemap
                                



                                    Tech Docs
                                



                                    Unit 42
                                



                                    Do Not Sell or Share My Personal Information
                                



















                                Privacy
                            



                                Trust Center
                            



                                Terms of Use
                            



                                Documents
                            


Copyright © 2026 Palo Alto Networks. All Rights Reserved































EN



Select your language



























Your browser does not support the video tag.
          

Default Heading
Read the article
              




Seekbar













Volume





















