














A Message to Election Officials from CISA Director Jen Easterly | CISA











Skip to main content





 





An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov
 A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
              






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
 A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
              











Staying Secure at Eventsno-cost Cyber ServicesCybersecurity Awareness MonthKEV CatalogReport A Cyber Issue 
































Search



 


Menu


















Close


 




Topics



Topics





Cybersecurity Best Practices






Cyber Threats and Response






Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience






Election Security






Emergency Communications






Industrial Control Systems






Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Security






Partnerships and Collaboration






Physical Security






Risk Management






        How can we help?
       
GovernmentEducational InstitutionsIndustryState, Local, Tribal, and TerritorialIndividuals and FamiliesSmall and Medium BusinessesFind Help LocallyFaith-Based CommunityExecutivesHigh-Risk Communities





Spotlight




Resources & Tools



Resources & Tools





All Resources & Tools






Services






Programs






Resources






Training






Groups








News & Events



News & Events





Directives






News






Events






Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories






Request a CISA Speaker






Congressional Testimony






CISA Conferences






CISA Live!








Careers



Careers





Benefits & Perks






Hiring and Recruitment






New Employee Orientation & Onboarding






Students & Recent Graduates






Veteran and Military Spouses








About



About





Divisions & Offices






Regions






Leadership






Doing Business with CISA






Site Links






CISA GitHub






CISA Central






Contact Us 






Subscribe






Transparency and Accountability






Policies & Plans










Staying Secure at Eventsno-cost Cyber ServicesCybersecurity Awareness MonthKEV CatalogReport A Cyber Issue 










Breadcrumb


Home


News & Events


News



              A Message to Election Officials from CISA Director Jen Easterly
            







Share:







    Opens in a new window
  






    Opens in a new window
  






    Opens in a new window
  

















Archived Content    In an effort to keep CISA.gov current, the archive contains outdated information that may not reflect current policy or programs.
  










Blog

A Message to Election Officials from CISA Director Jen Easterly



ReleasedOctober 15, 2024



Jen Easterly, CISA Director



								Related topics:
							

Election Security














We’re just a few weeks out from the 2024 general election, when citizens across the United States will make their voices heard by casting ballots for the candidates of their choice.   Free and fair elections are a hallmark of American democracy. At CISA, we are proud to stand shoulder to shoulder with you all, the state and local election officials who are on the frontlines of administering and securing our nation’s elections. And as we know, while elections may be political, election security is not. In this job, I have had the privilege to witness firsthand your tireless efforts to ensure that our nation’s election infrastructure is as secure and resilient as ever.  And so today, I have a message for all our election officials across the country: thank you and keep up the amazing work.   I know it’s not easy. You all are operating in a threat environment that is more complex than ever before. From cybercriminals targeting office networks, to foreign adversaries seeking to undermine public confidence in our democratic institutions, to extreme weather conditions that will cause disruptions to election administration. All of these things you are asked to take on—to prepare for and defend against—in order to secure a resilient democratic process. We also recognize that this is being asked of you while many of you are experiencing harassment and threats—threats that are outrageous and unacceptable.   But please never forget you are not in this alone—your teammates here at CISA and across the federal government stand ready to support you in this no-fail mission of defending American democracy.   We know you have heeded the call to serve our nation. Not for glory or financial reward but because it is the right thing to do for our national security. And it will be because of your leadership, your dedication, your professionalism, your belief in the foundation of our democracy, and the trust that each of you have created in your communities as public servants, that the American people can have confidence in the outcome in November. Thank you for all that you do and for being the real American heroes.Watch on YouTube













Related Articles






Jan 17, 2025

Blog



Defending Democracy: The #PROTECT2024 Chapter in Election Infrastructure Security
 







Sep 09, 2024

Blog



CISA Director Jen Easterly Remarks at the Election Center 39th Annual National Conference in Detroit
 







Aug 15, 2024

Blog



Region 10 Team Provides Vital Election Security Training for Idaho
 







May 15, 2024

Blog



Opening Statement by CISA Director Jen Easterly at the Update on Foreign Threats to the 2024 Elections Hearing 
 














Return to top






Topics


Spotlight


Resources & Tools


News & Events


Careers


About









Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 



Facebook


X


LinkedIn


YouTube


Instagram


RSS



CISA Central
1-844-Say-CISA
contact@cisa.dhs.gov










DHS Seal

CISA.gov
An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security




About CISA


Budget and Performance


DHS.gov


FOIA Requests


No FEAR Act


Office of Inspector General


Privacy Policy


Subscribe


The White House


USA.gov


Website Feedback





















