















V1: ED 26-03: Mitigate Vulnerabilities in Cisco SD-WAN Systems | CISA











Skip to main content





 





An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov
 A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
              






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
 A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
              











Staying Secure at Eventsno-cost Cyber ServicesCybersecurity Awareness MonthKEV CatalogReport A Cyber Issue 
































Search



 


Menu


















Close


 




Topics



Topics





Cybersecurity Best Practices






Cyber Threats and Response






Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience






Election Security






Emergency Communications






Industrial Control Systems






Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Security






Partnerships and Collaboration






Physical Security






Risk Management






        How can we help?
       
GovernmentEducational InstitutionsIndustryState, Local, Tribal, and TerritorialIndividuals and FamiliesSmall and Medium BusinessesFind Help LocallyFaith-Based CommunityExecutivesHigh-Risk Communities





Spotlight




Resources & Tools



Resources & Tools





All Resources & Tools






Services






Programs






Resources






Training






Groups








News & Events



News & Events





Directives






News






Events






Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories






Request a CISA Speaker






Congressional Testimony






CISA Conferences






CISA Live!








Careers



Careers





Benefits & Perks






Hiring and Recruitment






New Employee Orientation & Onboarding






Students & Recent Graduates






Veteran and Military Spouses








About



About





Divisions & Offices






Regions






Leadership






Doing Business with CISA






Site Links






CISA GitHub






CISA Central






Contact Us 






Subscribe






Transparency and Accountability






Policies & Plans










Staying Secure at Eventsno-cost Cyber ServicesCybersecurity Awareness MonthKEV CatalogReport A Cyber Issue 










Breadcrumb


Home


News & Events


Cybersecurity Directives



              V1: ED 26-03: Mitigate Vulnerabilities in Cisco SD-WAN Systems
            







Share:







    Opens in a new window
  






    Opens in a new window
  






    Opens in a new window
  




















Emergency Directives

V1: ED 26-03: Mitigate Vulnerabilities in Cisco SD-WAN Systems

March 11, 2026



								Related topics:
							

Cybersecurity Best Practices












News & Events




Directives




News




Events




Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories




Request a CISA Speaker




Congressional Testimony




CISA Conferences




CISA Live!











 


Section 3553(h) of title 44, U.S. Code, authorizes the Secretary of Homeland Security, in response to a known or reasonably suspected information security threat, vulnerability, or incident that represents a substantial threat to the information security of an agency, to “issue an emergency directive to the head of an agency to take any lawful action with respect to the operation of the information system, including such systems used or operated by another entity on behalf of an agency, that collects, processes, stores, transmits, disseminates, or otherwise maintains agency information, for the purpose of protecting the information system from, or mitigating, an information security threat.” 44 U.S.C. § 3553(h)(1)–(2). Sections 2202(c)(3) and 2205(3) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002, as amended, delegate this authority to the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency. 6 U.S.C. §§ 652(c)(3), 655(3). Federal agencies are required to comply with these directives. 44 U.S.C. § 3554 (a)(1)(B)(v). These directives do not apply to statutorily defined “national security systems” nor to systems operated by the Department of War or the Intelligence Community. 44 U.S.C. § 3553(d), (e)(2), (e)(3), (h)(1)(B).  
See Emergency Directive 26-03 for the Original Directive issued on February 25, 2026.
Background
This V1 supersedes the required actions in Emergency Directive (ED) 26-03: Mitigate Vulnerabilities in Cisco SD-WAN Systems and applies to any federal agency running affected products. This V1 includes updated and new required actions and an additional reporting requirement. 
Scope
This Directive refers to the systems to which it applies as “FCEB systems,” and to agencies operating those systems as “FCEB agencies.” This Directive applies to all federal information systems managed on agency networks or hosted by third parties on an agency’s behalf. This Directive does not apply to contractors, but FCEB agencies may need to modify contracts to comply with the required actions of this Directive.
All other provisions specified in this Directive remain applicable.
Required Actions 
This Emergency Directive requires agencies to take the following actions. Please note that these actions MUST be taken in the identified order:
Identify

Identify all in-scope Cisco SD-WAN systems within your network and provide this inventory to CISA using the CISA-provided template by 11:59 PM ET on February 26, 2026.

Collect

By 11:59 PM ET on February 26, 2026, complete the following actions:

Ensure SD-WANs are configured to store logs externally (outside the SD-WAN technology) and that logs are stored or accessible from a centralized location for detection and response.
Collect the following artifacts:

An admin tech dump, including portions of the /opt and /var directories, as outlined in Supplemental Direction ED 26-03: Hunt & Hardening Guidance for Cisco SD-WAN Systems.
A copy of the /home directory for user activity and keys.
Syslogs (stored externally).
For On-Prem SD-WAN Solutions:

A forensic snapshot of virtual disk/memory.
Network logs (firewall, switch, and router) associated with Cisco SD-WAN vManage, vSmart, and vBond appliances.


If Off-Prem (cloud) deployments:

Contact Cisco and request a forensic snapshot or virtual disk/memory image.
Contact Cisco to request AWS logs related to network traffic.






By 11:59 PM ET on March 23, 2026, complete the following actions:

Provide to CISA, using CISA’s Cloud Logging Aggregation Warehouse (CLAW) program, all syslog logging for Cisco SD-WAN devices (this includes all older, current, and future syslog logs).
All agencies with Cisco SD-WAN systems must configure their infrastructure to provide all other applicable cloud logs through CISA's CLAW program.

For assistance with this task, agencies should contact CLAWOperationsSupport@cisa.dhs.gov.





Update

 After completing required actions 1 and 2, apply Cisco provided updates1 to all of the CVEs identified in this Directive by 5:00 PM ET February 27, 2026.

Hunt 

Follow the steps outlined in the Hunt Guidance section of the Supplemental Direction ED 26-03: Hunt & Hardening Guidance for Cisco SD-WAN Systems.

If a root account compromise is identified, organizations must:

Immediately report indications of compromise to contact@cisa.dhs.gov.
Rebuild control management plane, which will require deploying fresh vManage, vSmart, and vBond instances from patched OVA or qcow2 images and migrate edges to the new infrastructure. 





Harden 

 Follow the steps outlined in the Hardening Guidance section of the Supplemental Direction ED 26-03: Hunt & Hardening Guidance for Cisco SD-WAN Systems, which clarifies actions from Cisco's hardening guidance.

Report

 All agencies must:

By 11:59 PM ET on February 26, 2026, report to CISA (using the provided template) a summary of in-scope products on agency networks, per required action #1.
By 11:59 PM ET on March 5, 2026, report to CISA (using the provided template) a detailed inventory of all in-scope products on agency networks and actions taken and results, including the collection of artifacts, CVE updates, and hunting actions, per required actions #1, #2, and #4.
By 11:59 PM ET on March 12, 2026, report to CISA (using the provided template) the actions taken to harden your networks, per required action #5.
By 11:59 PM ET on March 23, 2026, report to CISA (using provided template) the actions taken to provide logs to CISA, per required action #3.



CISA Actions: 

CISA will provide agencies with a template for reporting agency actions following Directive issuance.
CISA will continue efforts to identify instances and potential compromises associated with this threat activity, provide partner notifications, and issue additional guidance, as appropriate.
By May 1, 2026, CISA will provide a report to the Secretary of Homeland Security, the National Cyber Director, and the Office of Management and Budget, identifying the implementation of this Directive, including cross-agency status and outstanding issues.

Additional Information
Visit https://www.cisa.gov/news-events/directives or contact the following for: 

General information, assistance, and reporting – CyberDirectives@cisa.dhs.gov
Reporting indications of compromise – contact@cisa.dhs.gov   


1 https://sec.cloudapps.cisco.com/security/center/content/CiscoSecurityAdvisory/cisco-sa-sdwan-authbp-qwCX8D4v https://sec.cloudapps.cisco.com/security/center/content/CiscoSecurityAdvisory/cisco-sa-sdwan-rpa-EHchtZk 






Tags

Topics:
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                Cybersecurity Best Practices













Related Directives






Apr 23, 2026

Emergency Directive



V1: ED 25-03: Identify and Mitigate Potential Compromise of Cisco Devices
 







Feb 25, 2026

Emergency Directive



Supplemental Direction ED 26-03: Hunt and Hardening Guidance for Cisco SD-WAN Systems
 







Feb 25, 2026

Emergency Directive



ED 26-03: Mitigate Vulnerabilities in Cisco SD-WAN Systems
 







Jan 08, 2026

Emergency Directive



ED 24-02: Mitigating the Significant Risk from Nation-State Compromise of Microsoft Corporate Email System (Closed)
 














Return to top






Topics


Spotlight


Resources & Tools


News & Events


Careers


About









Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 



Facebook


X


LinkedIn


YouTube


Instagram


RSS



CISA Central
1-844-Say-CISA
contact@cisa.dhs.gov










DHS Seal

CISA.gov
An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security




About CISA


Budget and Performance


DHS.gov


FOIA Requests


No FEAR Act


Office of Inspector General


Privacy Policy


Subscribe


The White House


USA.gov


Website Feedback





















