














During National Small Business Week, Take Steps to Secure Your Business | CISA











Skip to main content





 





An official website of the United States government
Here’s how you know

Here’s how you know









Official websites use .gov
 A .gov website belongs to an official government organization in the United States.
              






Secure .gov websites use HTTPS
 A lock (LockA locked padlock) or https:// means you’ve safely connected to the .gov website. Share sensitive information only on official, secure websites.
              











Staying Secure at Eventsno-cost Cyber ServicesCybersecurity Awareness MonthKEV CatalogReport A Cyber Issue 
































Search



 


Menu


















Close


 




Topics



Topics





Cybersecurity Best Practices






Cyber Threats and Response






Critical Infrastructure Security and Resilience






Election Security






Emergency Communications






Industrial Control Systems






Information and Communications Technology Supply Chain Security






Partnerships and Collaboration






Physical Security






Risk Management






        How can we help?
       
GovernmentEducational InstitutionsIndustryState, Local, Tribal, and TerritorialIndividuals and FamiliesSmall and Medium BusinessesFind Help LocallyFaith-Based CommunityExecutivesHigh-Risk Communities





Spotlight




Resources & Tools



Resources & Tools





All Resources & Tools






Services






Programs






Resources






Training






Groups








News & Events



News & Events





Directives






News






Events






Cybersecurity Alerts & Advisories






Request a CISA Speaker






Congressional Testimony






CISA Conferences






CISA Live!








Careers



Careers





Benefits & Perks






Hiring and Recruitment






New Employee Orientation & Onboarding






Students & Recent Graduates






Veteran and Military Spouses








About



About





Divisions & Offices






Regions






Leadership






Doing Business with CISA






Site Links






CISA GitHub






CISA Central






Contact Us 






Subscribe






Transparency and Accountability






Policies & Plans










Staying Secure at Eventsno-cost Cyber ServicesCybersecurity Awareness MonthKEV CatalogReport A Cyber Issue 










Breadcrumb


Home


News & Events


News



              During National Small Business Week, Take Steps to Secure Your Business 
            







Share:







    Opens in a new window
  






    Opens in a new window
  






    Opens in a new window
  






















Blog

During National Small Business Week, Take Steps to Secure Your Business 



ReleasedApril 29, 2024



By Alaina Clark, Assistant Director for Stakeholder Engagement, CISA



								Related topics:
							

Cybersecurity Best Practices
										,
																																																							Multifactor Authentication
										,
																																																							Organizations and Cyber Safety














This year, during National Small Business Week, we celebrate the more than 32 million small businesses that are the backbone of our economy and so often the heart of our communities. Whether these businesses are found in small towns, big cities, or places in between, there are practical steps you can take to secure them against cyberattacks. As many of us have seen in the news or witnessed firsthand, cyberattacks like ransomware can abruptly shut down a small business--utterly devastating its owners, employees, and customers; sometimes even impacting the larger community.They are the target of cyber criminals because small businesses don’t always have the resources to invest in cybersecurity. So, during this year’s National Small Business Week (April 28-May 4), I am personally inviting you to use the many free resources offered by the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency (CISA) to create cyber safety habits that will help you Secure Your Business. To get started, implement these four simple cybersecurity steps:Train staff to recognize phishing. Emphasize the harm phishing emails can cause while educating employees on what to look for in a phishing email and encouraging everyone to think before they click on any links or attachments.  Require strong passwords. As the first line of defense in stopping criminals from accessing accounts, passwords should be random, unique, and at least 16 characters long. Avoid using the same password for multiple accounts and enable an enterprise-level password manager so that the only password you need to remember is the one for the password manager.  Require multifactor authentication (MFA). MFA requires more than a password to access your accounts, such as a texted code, biometric scan, or access card. With more than 310 million smartphone users in the U.S., it’s easy to use a smartphone or tablet to implement MFA. Update any software used for business. Out-of-date software is easily exploited to steal business, employee, and customer data. Enable automatic software updates on connected devices used for business so they automatically get the latest security patches. It is also incredibly important to be aware of any outdated or unsupported software or hardware, so make sure to inventory and update them.You can find additional online resources by visiting Secure Our World Secure Our World, CISA’s enduring, year-round cybersecurity awareness program that uses creative campaigns to teach the American public easy ways to stay safe online. We continually release new content so bookmark the page, revisit it often, and share the messaging with your employees, your friends and family, and throughout your business community. If you’re looking for CISA resources closer to home, CISA has regional offices throughout the U.S. where our field personnel provide a variety of risk management and response services to help businesses become more resilient to cyber and physical threats.In addition to these perennial resources, this year, CISA is also hosting a virtual booth at the National Small Business Week Virtual Summit where registered attendees can access resources to boost their cyber resiliency. Hosted by the U.S. Small Business Administration and SCORE, the April 30 – May 1 summit recognizes America’s small businesses for their hard work, ingenuity, and dedication and will feature educational workshops, networking opportunities, and access to other federal resources. If you’re attending, be sure to check out the CISA booth.Additionally, every year in October, we work with our voluntary partners—who are critical to our mission and our shared success—to lead the nation in celebrating Cybersecurity Awareness Month. Want to become a Cybersecurity Awareness Month Partner? Email us at Awareness Campaigns. As you consider which combination of resources will best help you start or expand your small businesses’ cybersecurity practices, I also encourage you to make it a point to talk about cybersecurity to your entire organization, no matter the size. Having these conversations helps establish a culture of security—making cybersecurity the everyday activity it needs to be to Secure Your Business and Secure Our World.Alaina R. Clark is Assistant Director for Stakeholder Engagement at CISA.  













Related Articles






Aug 10, 2023

Blog



Back to School Month: Let’s Step Towards a Stronger and More Secure future for Our Nation’s Schools
 






 
 


Jun 02, 2023

Blog



National Internet Safety Month: Together, we can make our K-12 schools cybersecure. It’s fundamental.
 







May 02, 2023

Blog



Accelerating Our Economy Through Better Security: Helping America’s Small Businesses Address Cyber Threats
 







Jun 10, 2026

Blog



Patch Smarter, Not Harder
 














Return to top






Topics


Spotlight


Resources & Tools


News & Events


Careers


About









Cybersecurity & Infrastructure Security Agency
 



Facebook


X


LinkedIn


YouTube


Instagram


RSS



CISA Central
1-844-Say-CISA
contact@cisa.dhs.gov










DHS Seal

CISA.gov
An official website of the U.S. Department of Homeland Security




About CISA


Budget and Performance


DHS.gov


FOIA Requests


No FEAR Act


Office of Inspector General


Privacy Policy


Subscribe


The White House


USA.gov


Website Feedback





















